[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit.
Erlin BUESO-AVILA, Petitioner, v. Eric H. HOLDER, Jr., Attorney General
of the United States, Respondent.
No. 10-2760.
Argued September 8, 2011.
Decided November 29, 2011.
Rehearing and Suggestion for Rehearing En Banc Denied
March 1, 2012. [fn*]
[fn*] Judge Flaum and Judge Williams did not participate
in the consideration of this petition.
Brian S. Shull (argued), Attorney, Sidley Austin LLP,
Chicago, IL, for Petitioner.
OIL, William C. Peachey, Rebecca Hoffberg Phillips (argued),
Mona M. Yousif, Attorneys, Department of Justice, Civil
Division, Immigration Litigation, Washington, DC, for
Respondent.
Helen Elizabeth Dallam, Attorney, United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees, Washington, DC, for Amicus Curiae,
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
Gregory L. Berlowitz, Attorney, Mayer Brown LLP, Chicago, IL,
for Amicus Curiae, National Association of Evangelicals and
Rutherford Institute.
Before MANION, ROVNER, and TINDER, Circuit Judges.
MANION, Circuit Judge.
Erlin Bueso-Avila, a citizen of Honduras, sought asylum and
withholding of removal. He alleged that he had suffered
persecution at the hands of the Mara Salvatrucha street gang on
account of his evangelical Christian religious beliefs and his
church youth group membership. The Immigration Judge and the
Board of Immigration Appeals denied Bueso-Avila's application
because he had failed to establish that the gang's actions were
on account of his religion or social group membership.
Bueso-Avila then petitioned this court for review. Because
there is substantial evidence in support of the Board's
decision, we must deny Bueso-Avila's petition.
I.
In May 2005, while a teenager, BuesoAvila left Honduras and
entered the United States illegally. Shortly thereafter, he was
caught and the Department of Homeland Security began removal
proceedings against him. He then filed an application for
asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the
Convention Against Torture. The Immigration Judge conducted a
hearing on the merits of Bueso-Avila's application. At the time
of the hearing, Bueso-Avila was nineteen years old. Because he
was the sole witness to testify at the hearing, we summarize
his testimony.
Bueso-Avila lived with his family in the city of San Pedro
Sula, Honduras. Though born and raised Catholic, at the age of
15 he joined a youth group with an evangelical Christian church
called La Cosecha, the largest church in Honduras. Bueso-Avila
would meet with his church youth group twice a week to study
and discuss the Bible. According to Bueso-Avila, evangelization
and recruiting young people in the local community are
essential parts of the mission of his church. He testified that
before the meetings, his church group would walk around the
neighborhood with their Bibles and invite other people to their
meetings and away from gang life. Bueso-Avila said that "[o]ur
purpose in doing this was to get young people to see the ways
of God, and to start doing good things instead of smoking
marijuana, robbing, and killing people like the gang members
did." Sadly, Bueso-Avila's neighborhood was plagued by the
presence of the violent Mara Salvatrucha, or MS-13, street
gang. [fn1] Bueso-Avila testified that the gang members believed
that the church's proselytization was encroaching on their
territory by drawing away youths who were potential gang
recruits, and that this led to several threats and attacks from
the gang.
He testified that his first encounter with the gang occurred
after his third church group meeting. Some gang members
approached and tried to recruit him to the gang. He refused the
request and was able to run away from the gang members
unharmed. A second encounter occurred after another church
group meeting. [**2] Gang members again approached Bueso-Avila and
made threatening comments, and then grabbed him and beat him.
Fortunately, Bueso-Avila was able to escape after a man
wielding a machete scared away the gang members. A similar
attempt by the gang to recruit him occurred on another
occasion, but again, Bueso-Avila escaped after a stranger
approached.
Bueso-Avila also testified that other members of his church
youth group were [*936] threatened by the gang's recruitment efforts. Two members
of the church group were forced to join the gang after the gang
threatened their families and even allegedly murdered the
brother of one church group member.
Bueso-Avila's most serious encounter with the MS-13 gang was
when he was traveling home from work by bus. He testified that
gang members were waiting for him at the bus station. They
approached him and said that he needed to join the gang. After
he refused, the gang beat him severely, and left him lying on
the ground. He testified that he received bruises and cuts, and
almost lost consciousness. Later, a gang member told
Bueso-Avila's mother that if the family talked to the police,
they would be harmed. Bueso-Avila still has scars from the
attack.
Following this final attack, Bueso-Avila left Honduras,
traveled by foot and by train across Guatemala and Mexico, and
entered the United States where he has a sister living in
Florida. In May 2005, he arrived in the country, but was
apprehended shortly after crossing the border.
Bueso-Avila testified that he is afraid to go back to Honduras
because he believes that the MS-13 gang would still hurt him.
He also does not believe that the Honduran police would be able
to protect him. [fn2] Apparently, his parents and family have
moved to another part of Honduras to avoid the danger, but
there is no evidence in the record about whether the gang has
influence in that part of the country.
Following the hearing, on October 22, 2007, the Immigration
Judge issued a written opinion denying Bueso-Avila's
application for asylum, withholding of removal, and protection
under the Convention Against Torture. On June 30, 2009, the
Board of Immigration Appeals affirmed the Immigration Judge's
decision, holding that Bueso-Avila had failed to establish that
the gang's harassment and attacks were on grounds protected by
the Immigration and Nationality Act.
Bueso-Avila petitioned this court for relief. In a short order,
we remanded the case to the Board of Immigration Appeals for
reconsideration in light of two recent intervening cases which
indicated that social visibility is not required to establish
membership in a particular social group. See Gatimi v. Holder , 578 F.3d 611 , 615-16 (7th Cir. 2009), and Benitez Ramos v. Holder , 589 F.3d 426 , 430 (7th
Cir. 2009). On remand, the Board issued an opinion on July 6,
2010. It first noted that the Gatimi and Ramos cases did not affect the outcome of its
decision. The Board then again denied Bueso-Avila's
application, ruling that he had "failed to establish past
persecution on account of any ground protected under the Act."
The Board's decision rested on its finding that there was
insufficient [**3] testimonial and documentary evidence establishing
a nexus between the harm Bueso-Avila suffered and his religion
or his membership in the evangelical Christian church youth
group. Specifically, the Board found that the violent actions
of the gang members instead "stemmed from the efforts of the
gang members to forcibly recruit him," and that even if the
gang members had a mixed motive, Bueso-Avila had not
established that his religion or membership in the youth group
"was at least one central reason" for his persecution. The
Board then dismissed Bueso-Avila's application for asylum,
with-holding of removal, and protection under [*937] the Convention Against Torture. Bueso-Avila now petitions
our court for review.
II.
On appeal, Bueso-Avila challenges the Board's decision denying
his application for asylum and withholding of removal; he does
not challenge the denial of his application for protection
under the Convention Against Torture. To establish eligibility
for asylum, an alien must demonstrate that he suffered
persecution or has a well-founded fear of persecution "on
account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a
particular social group, or political opinion." 8 U.S.C. § 1101 (a)(42)(A); 8 U.S.C. § 1158 (b)(1)(B)(i); 8 C.F.R. § 1208.13 . If an applicant fails to establish eligibility for
asylum, he "necessarily cannot satisfy the more stringent
requirement for withholding of removal under 8 U.S.C. § 1231 (b)(3)." Ahmed v. Ashcroft , 348 F.3d 611 , 615 (7th Cir. 2003).
We must affirm the Board's decision if it is supported by
substantial evidence. Id . "Applying that standard, we
assess whether the [Board's] determination was `supported by
reasonable, substantial, and probative evidence on the record
considered as a whole,' and reverse only if the evidence
compels a contrary conclusion." Id . (quoting INS v. Elias-Zacarias , 502 U.S. 478 , 481 , 112 S.Ct. 812 , 117 L.Ed.2d 38 (1992)). In other words, for reversal, the evidence
must be "so compelling that no reasonable factfinder could fail
to find the requisite fear of persecution." Elias-Zacarias , 502 U.S. at 483-84 , 112 S.Ct. 812 ; see Margos v. Gonzales , 443 F.3d 593 , 597 (7th
Cir. 2006). Thus "we are not at liberty to overturn the Board's
determination simply because we would have decided the case
differently." Jamal-Daoud v. Gonzales , 403 F.3d 918 , 922 (7th Cir. 2005).
To show that he was persecuted by the MS-13 gang "on account of
his religion or membership in a particular social group,
Bueso-Avila must put forth direct or circumstantial evidence
that the gang was motivated by these factors. See Martinez-Buendia v. Holder , 616 F.3d 711 , 715 (7th
Cir. 2010); see also Elias-Zacarias , 502 U.S. at 483 , 112 S.Ct. 812 ("[S]ince the statute makes motive critical, he
must provide some evidence of it, direct or
circumstantial."). But it is not necessary that the persecutor
be motivated primarily on account of one of the grounds in the
Act; "an individual may qualify for asylum if his or her
persecutors have more than one motive as long as one of the
motives is specified in the Immigration and Nationality Act." Ndonyi v. Mukasey , 541 F.3d 702 , 710 (7th Cir. 2008)
(internal quotation omitted).
Bueso-Avila argues that he presented sufficient evidence to
establish that the MS-13 gang members were motivated, at least
in part, by his evangelical Christianity or his membership in
the church youth group. [fn3] In support [**4] of this position,
Bueso-Avila points to the fact that the Immigration Judge found
him to be a credible witness and that he testified to the
following: that Bueso-Avila was only threatened and injured by
the gang after he joined his church youth group; that other
members of his church youth group were also threatened and
injured by the gang and that the youth group was eventually
disbanded because of the danger; that the gang knew he was a
religious individual because he walked around the neighborhood [*938] with his Bible before church meetings; that the gang was
unhappy with Bueso-Avila's proselytization and with the
church's recruitment efforts; and that the gang wanted to stop
the church's recruiting and eliminate it as a competitor.
Contrary to Bueso-Avila's contention, the Board considered this
evidence and found that it only suggested that the gang's
actions were from its efforts to forcibly recruit young people
to the gang, and did not stem from a prohibited factor. The
issue before us, then, is whether the evidentiary record
"compels the conclusion" that the gang targeted Bueso-Avila, at
least in part, because of his religion or church group
membership. See Elias-Zacarias , 502 U.S. at 483 , 112 S.Ct. 812 . Upon review of the record, we cannot say that we are
so compelled.
The evidentiary record does not contain direct evidence of the
motivations of the MS-13 gang members. There is no testimony
that Bueso-Avila's attackers ever mentioned his religion or
church youth group membership, nor that they gave any
indication that they were aware of or even cared about these
factors. The fact that some of the threats against Bueso-Avila
occurred after church group meetings does not necessarily mean
that the gang members were reacting to Bueso-Avila's religious
beliefs; in fact, the most serious attack against Bueso-Avila
occurred as he was coming home from work, not from his church.
In addition, Bueso-Avila's documentary evidence presented did
not indicate that the MS-13 gang had the motive of targeting
people on the basis of religion or participation in church
youth groups. Bueso-Avila's testimony that the gang members
knew about his religion and church youth group membership, and
that the gang members persecuted him on account of these
characteristics, is an inference based on circumstantial
evidence. Now this is a possible and legitimate inference to
make. But we cannot say that this inference is supported by
circumstantial evidence that is "so compelling that no
reasonable fact-finder could fail to find" that the MS-13 gang
was motivated to persecute Bueso-Avila on the basis of his
religion or group membership. Jamal-Daoud v. Gonzales , 403 F.3d 918 , 922 (7th Cir. 2005). Based on all the evidence
presented by Bueso-Avila, it is also legitimate to infer that
the gang members were either unaware of or did not care about
Bueso-Avila's religious beliefs and church group membership.
Instead, they may have threatened and attacked him in an
attempt to recruit him into the gang because he was one of
several local youths who were potential recruits — which
is not a protected basis [**5] under the Act. Consequently, there is
not a sufficient basis to overturn the Board's determination.
This conclusion is consistent with case law involving forced
recruitments. In the Supreme Court case of INS v. Elias-Zacarias , 502 U.S. 478 , 479-80 , 112 S.Ct. 812 , 117 L.Ed.2d 38 (1992), the applicant was seeking asylum on account
of his political beliefs, and alleged that he had been
persecuted for refusing to be recruited to a political
organization. But the Supreme Court held that the applicant's
refusal to agree to the forced recruitment was insufficient by
itself to show that his persecutors acted "on account of his
political views. Id. at 482-84 , 112 S.Ct. 812 .
On the other hand, in Martinez-Buendia v. Holder , 616 F.3d 711 , 719 (7th Cir. 2010), we found that there was
sufficient evidence to establish that the applicant's
persecutors were motivated by the applicant's political beliefs
when she refused to be recruited to the political party of her
persecutors. But in that case, not only was there documentary
evidence that her persecutors saw the applicant as a political
opponent, but there was evidence that her [*939] persecutors recognized her refusal to cooperate as a
political stance, and, accordingly, increased their violence
against her because of her continued political stand against
them. Id. at 717 .
Similarly, in Gomes v. Gonzales , 473 F.3d 746 , 754-55 (7th Cir. 2007), we found that the record established that there
was persecution on the basis of religion. In that case, there
was "a great deal of evidence" supporting the claim that the
applicant was being targeted because of his religious beliefs,
including the existence of anonymous callers threatening his
life and demanding that he change his religion, and the fact
that his attackers gave him an ultimatum to either renounce
Christianity or face death after they broke into his home. Id. at 754 .
The facts of this case fall closer to the facts of Elias-Zacarias than to those of Martinez-Buendia and Gomes. Like the
applicant in Elias-Zacarias , Bueso-Avila's persecutors
were attempting to recruit him to their ranks, but there was no
additional evidence that his persecutors knew of — or
even if they did know, that they were motivated by —
Bueso-Avila's religious beliefs or church group membership. And
unlike the applicants in Martinez-Buendia and Gomes , Bueso-Avila did not present any additional
evidence supporting the fact that his persecutors recognized
his religious beliefs or church group membership and targeted
him because of these factors.
In sum, because our review of the Board's decision is "highly
deferential," we can overturn the Board "only when the evidence
compels that contrary conclusion, and not simply because we
would have decided the case differently." Capric v. Ashcroft , 355 F.3d 1075 , 1086 (7th Cir. 2004) (internal
citations and quotations omitted). Here, there is insufficient
evidence in the record compelling a finding that the MS-13 gang
targeted Bueso-Avila on account of his evangelical Christian
religious beliefs or his church youth group membership.
Instead, there is substantial evidence in the record to support
the finding that the gang threatened and harmed Bueso-Avila
simply because he was a youth [**6] who refused to join their street
gang, regardless of his religious activities. Consequently,
while we recognize the terrible situation created in Honduras
by the activity of the MS-13 gang, we must affirm the Board's
decision denying Bueso-Avila's application for asylum.
Furthermore, because Bueso-Avila cannot establish eligibility
for asylum, he necessarily cannot satisfy the higher standard
for withholding of removal. See Zhou Ji Ni v. Holder , 635 F.3d 1014 , 1020 (7th Cir. 2011).
III.
For these reasons, we affirm the decision of the Board of
Immigration Appeals, and deny Bueso-Avila's petition for
review.
[fn1] For more on this criminal street gang, see Luz E. Nagle, Criminal Gangs in Latin America: The Next Great Threat to Regional Security and Stability? ,
14 Tex. Hisp. J.L. & Policy 7 (2008).
[fn2] "[A] finding of persecution ordinarily requires a
determination that government authorities, if they did not
actually perpetrate or incite the persecution, condoned it or
at least demonstrated a complete helplessness to protect the
victims." Galina v. INS , 213 F.3d 955 , 958 (7th
Cir. 2000). This issue, however, is not before us on
appeal.
[fn3] The Board did not address whether an evangelical
Christian church youth group is "a particular social group" for
purposes of the Act, and, similarly, we need not address this
issue either.
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | F.3d
** | BL

