[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, Eighth Circuit.
UNITED STATES of America, Appellee, v. Jose Luis RODRIGUEZ-RAMOS,
Appellant. United States of America, Appellee, v. German Robles-Garcia,
Appellant.
Nos. 10-3769, 11-1019.
Submitted: September 20, 2011.
Filed: December 9, 2011.
Rehearing and Rehearing En Banc Denied January 12, 2012.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Iowa, Mark W. Bennett, J.
[EDITORS' NOTE:  THIS PAGE CONTAINS HEADNOTES. HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN
OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.] [*358]
[EDITORS' NOTE:  THIS PAGE CONTAINS HEADNOTES. HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN
OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.] [*359]
Priscilla E. Forsyth, argued, Sioux City, IA, for appellant
Rodriguez-Ramos.
Evans D. Prieston, argued, Novato, CA, for appellant
Robles-Garcia.
Robert Knief, AUSA, argued, Sioux City, IA, for appellee.
Before WOLLMAN, BYE, and SHEPHERD, Circuit Judges. [*360]
SHEPHERD, Circuit Judge.
Appellants German Robles-Garcia and Jose Luis
Rodriguez-Ramos were tried jointly by jury. Robles was
convicted of conspiracy to distribute less than 50 grams of
methamphetamine mixture, 50 grams or more of methamphetamine
actual, and 5 kilograms or more of cocaine under 21 U.S.C. §§ 841 (a)(1) and 841 (b)(1)(A). He was also convicted of
kidnapping in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1201 . Rodriguez was
convicted of conspiracy to distribute meth-amphetamine in
violation of 21 U.S.C. § 846 . The district court [fn1] sentenced Robles to two concurrent terms of 600 months
imprisonment with five years of supervised release and
sentenced Rodriguez to 260 months of imprisonment with five
years of supervised release. Both now appeal. We affirm.
I. Factual Background
A Robles
Appellant Robles and Martin Garcia-Huerta, who was a
cooperating witness at trial, had an agreement whereby Robles,
who lived in California, would supply cocaine to Garcia for
distribution in Omaha, Nebraska, and the two would split
profits. [fn2] In the fall of 2009, the relationship between
Garcia and Robles began to unravel, largely because Garcia owed
Robles $100,000 for cocaine that Garcia had received but for
which he had not paid. Garcia and his operation began hiding
from Robles, while Robles and his organization began looking
for Garcia.
Shortly after Garcia's dispute with Robles began, Garcia had a
disagreement with Ernesto Herrera-Castro (Tito), one of
Garcia's workers. Tito continued to work for Garcia, but
unbeknownst to Garcia, began communicating with Robles about
Garcia's whereabouts. In December of 2009, Tito arranged for
another member of Garcia's group, Raul Tapia-Marroquin, to meet
Tito to buy methamphetamine. Tito took Tapia to a motel and
Tito, Robles, and an unidentified third person bound Tapia and
held him against his will. Robles put a gun into Tapia's mouth
and threatened to "blow [his] brains out" if he would not
reveal Garcia's exact location. Tapia was held for several
hours while Robles searched his home. Robles informed Tapia
that Tapia would be forced to remain with Robles until Robles
located Garcia. Fortunately, Tapia was able to escape.
Immediately [**2] after the kidnapping, Garcia and his workers
— alerted that Robles had located them, unwilling to pay
back the $100,000, and afraid of what Robles would do to them
— again relocated their operation, this time to
Minneapolis, Minnesota. There, Garcia and his associates rented
homes and placed 13 kilograms of methamphetamine in a rented
storage locker.
B. Rodriguez
In 2009, Garcia paid to have appellant Rodriguez smuggled into
the United States from Mexico to help with Garcia's drug
conspiracy. Rodriguez then worked with Garcia in Omaha, Sioux
City, and Minneapolis. Rodriguez conducted several drug deals
for Garcia; supplied an underage member of Garcia's
organization with a handgun; lived in and had keys to the main
house used by Garcia's operation to store and package drugs in
Sioux City; and lived in a house paid for by Garcia in [*361] Minneapolis. Rodriguez helped Garcia unload the 13
kilograms of methamphetamine into the storage locker in
Minneapolis and was with Garcia at the time of their arrests.
II. Robles
Robles appeals his conviction on grounds of sufficiency of the
evidence and ineffective assistance of counsel. He also argues
that the trial judge considered unreliable information to
support his sentence, that the judge erred in applying the
leader-organizer enhancement, and that his sentence violates
the Eighth Amendment guarantee against cruel and unusual
punishment.
A. Sufficiency of the Evidence
Robles contends the evidence at trial was insufficient to
support his conviction for the drug conspiracy and argues that
the district court should have granted his motion for acquittal
under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 29 (a). We review the
denial of a motion for a judgment of acquittal de novo. United States v. Janis , 556 F.3d 894 , 897 (8th
Cir. 2009).
"Where a party challenges the evidence underlying his
conviction, the standard of review is very strict, and the
jury's verdict is not to be lightly overturned. We view the
evidence in the light most favorable to the government, and we
resolve any evidentiary conflicts in the government's favor." United States v. Hayes , 391 F.3d 958 , 961 (8th
Cir. 2004) (internal citations omitted).
To convict a defendant on a conspiracy charge, the Government
must prove that "1) an agreement existed among two or more
people to accomplish an illegal purpose, 2) the defendant knew
of the conspiracy, and 3) the defendant knowingly joined and
participated in the conspiracy." Id. at 961 . The
Government is not required to prove that a defendant expressly
agreed to join a conspiracy; a tacit agreement by the defendant
is sufficient. Id . "The elements of conspiracy may be
proved by direct or circumstantial evidence, and the jury may
draw reasonable inferences from the evidence presented about
what the defendant's state of mind was when he did or said the
things presented in the evidence." United States v. Cervantes , 646 F.3d 1054 , 1059 (8th Cir. 2011) (quoting United States v. Chavez-Alvarez , 594 F.3d 1062 , 1067 (8th Cir. 2010)).
Robles contends there was insufficient evidence to support the
charge of conspiracy to distribute five or more grams of
cocaine, arguing the witnesses' testimony [**3] was not credible and
that the testimony failed to establish Robles intentionally and
knowingly entered into a conspiracy.
Garcia testified at trial that Robles was his supplier of eight
kilograms of cocaine and testified the two had an agreement to
divide the profits of Garcia's sales. Ivan Rodriguez, another
member of Garcia's organization, also testified that Robles was
the supplier of the cocaine distributed by the organization.
Robles contests the sufficiency of this evidence, arguing that
Ivan Rodriguez and Garcia were not credible witnesses because
they testified against him in hopes of gaining lighter
sentences for themselves. At trial, defense attorneys
questioned the witnesses at length about their possible biases
and motives for testifying. The jury was well aware the
witnesses were coconspirators and hoped for lighter sentences
in exchange for testifying against Robles. However, the jury
was entitled to credit those witnesses over Robles's defense.
"The jury is the final arbiter [*362] of the witnesses' credibility, and we will not disturb that
assessment." Hayes , 391 F.3d at 961 .
Additionally, Robles argues Garcia's and Ivan Rodriguez's
testimony failed to show that Robles had knowingly and
intentionally joined the conspiracy. To convict a defendant of
a conspiracy to distribute cocaine, the Government must prove
"that a conspiracy to distribute cocaine existed, that [Robles]
knew of the conspiracy, and that [Robles] intentionally joined
the conspiracy." United States v. Huggans , 650 F.3d 1210 , 1222 (8th Cir. 2011) (quoting United States v. Williams , 534 F.3d 980 , 985 (8th Cir. 2008)). As stated,
Garcia's and Rodriguez's testimony was sufficient to establish
the existence of the conspiracy. Additionally, we have found
that a defendant's repeated supply of large amounts of cocaine
to a cocaine conspiracy is not a typical buyer-seller
relationship but instead is indicative of knowledge and intent
to join a conspiracy because of the quantity and regularity of
the transactions. Id. at 1222-23 . Garcia testified
that Robles supplied him with multiple shipments of cocaine,
totaling eight kilograms, over the course of the conspiracy.
Garcia also testified that he and Robles had an agreement to
split the profits from the cocaine sales. This was sufficient
to establish Robles's knowledge of and intent to join the
conspiracy.
Similarly, there was also sufficient evidence to support the
separate charge that Robles was involved in a conspiracy to
distribute less than 50 grams of methamphetamine mixture.
Though Robles contends he supplied only cocaine to the
conspiracy, Robles's involvement with only one drug in the
conspiracy does not absolve him from responsibility for the
other drugs that the conspiracy sold. See United States v. Donnell , 596 F.3d 913 , 924 (8th Cir. 2010), cert. denied, Donnell v. United States , ___ U.S. ___ , 131 S.Ct. 994 , 178 L.Ed.2d 831 (2011). In Donnell , a defendant
was charged with being a member of a conspiracy to distribute
four types of drugs, though his involvement with the conspiracy
was limited to a single drug, ecstasy. Id. at 923-24 .
The defendant argued there were multiple conspiracies at play
and that the evidence [**4] failed to show that he had knowingly and
intentionally joined the overarching conspiracy to sell
multiple drugs. Id . Rather, he argued he was involved
in a smaller conspiracy to distribute ecstasy only. Id . We noted the evidence was sufficient to show the
defendant had knowingly engaged in a conspiracy to sell ecstasy
and found a reasonable jury could have concluded this
conspiracy was the same conspiracy that distributed the other
drugs. Id. at 924 . We stated "a conspiracy with
multiple objectives is not the same thing as multiple
conspiracies." Id . (quoting United States v. Santisteban , 501 F.3d 873 , 882 (8th Cir. 2007)). "One
conspiracy may exist despite the involvement of multiple groups
and the performance of separate acts." United States v. Riebold , 135 F.3d 1226 , 1230 (8th Cir. 1998) (quoting United States v. Dijan , 37 F.3d 398 , 402 (8th
Cir. 1994)).
The evidence at trial showed that Robles had entered a
conspiracy with Garcia to distribute cocaine. There was
sufficient evidence from which a reasonable jury could have
concluded that this was part of a larger conspiracy that also
distributed methamphetamine. Members of the conspiracy
testified that the conspiracy distributed both cocaine and
methamphetamine. Additionally, Robles was interconnected with
many of the men who sold both cocaine and methamphetamine.
Detective John Guerrero testified that at the time of Robles's
arrest, Robles was in possession of one ounce of
methamphetamine, which he admitted belonged to [*363] him. Guerrero testified that in his expert opinion, one
ounce was an amount associated with distribution, rather than
with use. The jury could have reasonably concluded that
Robles's possession of distribution quantities of
methamphetamine indicated his involvement in the distribution
ring was not limited to the organization's cocaine
distribution. See United States v. Rolon-Ramos , 502 F.3d 750 , 754 (8th Cir. 2007) (finding a defendant's possession
of small amounts of methamphetamine coupled with other evidence
of his connection with the conspiracy to distribute
methamphetamine was sufficient to find that the defendant had
conspired to distribute methamphetamine). Based on the evidence
presented at trial, the jury could reasonably have inferred
that the conspiracy between Garcia and Robles to distribute
cocaine was part of a larger conspiracy with multiple
objectives, including the distribution of methamphetamine.
For these reasons, we conclude that there was sufficient
evidence to support Robles's conviction for conspiring to
distribute less than 50 grams of methamphetamine mixture.
Additionally, there was sufficient evidence to support Robles's
conviction for conspiracy to distribute greater than 50 grams
of methamphetamine actual. The overwhelming evidence at trial
indicated that members of Garcia's conspiracy placed 13
kilograms of pure methamphetamine in a storage locker. Although
this methamphetamine was placed in the locker after Garcia's
dispute with Robles began, a member of a drug conspiracy is
responsible for all reasonably foreseeable actions of a
conspiracy unless he withdraws [**5] from the conspiracy. [fn3] See Pinkerton v. United States , 328 U.S. 640 , 647-48 , 66 S.Ct. 1180 , 90 L.Ed. 1489 (1946). Robles's dispute with
Garcia was not an effective withdrawal. To withdraw from a
conspiracy, a conspirator must either make "a clean breast to
the government or else communicate[] the fact of withdrawal to
his co-conspirators in a manner reasonably calculated to reach
them." United States v. Elk , 548 F.3d 641 , 673 (8th
Cir. 2008). "[M]ere cessation of unlawful participation is not
enough" to constitute a withdrawal. Id. at 676 (8th
Cir. 2008). Similarly, a souring of a relationship between a
defendant and his coconspirators resulting in an end of the
defendant's business relationship with the conspiracy is
insufficient to establish a withdrawal from the conspiracy. United States v. Jackson , 345 F.3d 638 , 648-49 .
At the time the methamphetamine was placed in the storage
locker, Robles had not withdrawn from and was still engaged in
and attempting to profit from the conspiracy. [fn4] Robles had
not informed police [*364] of the conspiracy. Additionally, he had not informed Garcia
of his intent to withdraw from the conspiracy. Instead, Robles
was actively pursuing Garcia to recover the $100,000 in drug
money owed to him. Thus, Robles is accountable for the
methamphetamine found in the storage locker because it was
placed there in the course of a conspiracy of which Robles was
a member and from which he had not withdrawn.
For these reasons, the evidence was sufficient to support the
jury's verdict, and the court did not err in denying Robles's
request for an acquittal under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 29 (a).
B. Reliability of the Evidence Considered at Sentencing
Next, Robles argues that the district court erred at sentencing
when it considered testimony that he had worked as a Mexican
police officer and that indicated the existence of outstanding
warrants for his arrest in Mexico. Robles argues the testimony
constituted unreliable evidence.
Sentencing courts have "wide discretion at sentencing as to the
kind of information considered or its source." United States v. Pratt , 553 F.3d 1165 , 1170 (8th
Cir. 2009). A court may consider all relevant evidence at
sentencing, regardless of its admissibility under the rules of
evidence, provided that the evidence has "sufficient indicia of
reliability." United States v. Ortiz , 636 F.3d 389 , 393 (8th Cir. 2011). The evidence need not be limited to
evidence relating to the scope of the crimes charged and may
include "uncorroborated hearsay, provided the defendant is
given a chance to rebut or explain it." United States v. Pratt , 553 F.3d at 1170 (quoting United States v. Atkins , 250 F.3d 1203 , 1213 (8th Cir. 2001)). "[T]he
sentencing process does not carry the same evidentiary
protections guaranteed during a criminal trial." Id . (quoting United States v. Agboola , 417 F.3d 860 , 865 (8th Cir. 2005)).
At sentencing, Robert Hansen, a member of the Tri-State Drug
Task Force unit of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA),
testified that he had spoken with a DEA agent in Mexico who
informed him that Robles had worked as a Mexican police
officer. Additionally, the officer testified the agent told him
that warrants had been issued for Robles's arrest in Mexico,
though he was unaware of whether any action had been taken [**6] on
the warrants or if they were still outstanding.
This hearsay evidence had sufficient indicia of reliability,
and Robles had the opportunity to rebut the same. Accordingly,
we conclude that the court did not err in considering Detective
Hansen's testimony.
C. Enhancement for Leadership Role in the Kidnapping
Robles was given a four-step enhancement to his offense level
for being the leader or organizer of a criminal activity based
on his involvement in Tapia's kidnapping. See United
States Sentencing Commission, Guidelines Manual ,
§ 3B1.1 . Robles does not contest that the kidnapping was a
qualifying activity for the four-level enhancement but argues
that there was insufficient evidence to show that he was the
leader or organizer of the kidnapping.
"A leadership enhancement is warranted when an individual
organizes or directs the participation of another and is
reviewed for clear error." United States [*365] v. Van Chase , 137 F.3d 579 , 583 (8th Cir. 1998)
(internal citation omitted). To warrant the enhancement, "the
defendant need only to have directed one other participant." United States v. Sarabia-Martinez , 276 F.3d 447 , 451 (8th Cir. 2002). The Government need only prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that the leader-organizer
enhancement is appropriate. United States v. Gar eta-Hernandez , 530 F.3d 657 , 665 (8th Cir. 2008).
The evidence presented at trial was sufficient to support the
judge's finding that Robles was a leader or organizer in the
kidnapping. Garcia testified that Tito monitored Garcia's and
Tapia's actions and reported their location back to Robles in
order to enable Robles to effectuate Tapia's kidnapping. [fn5] Robles supervised at least one person when he directed Tito to
inform Robles of Garcia's whereabouts. Thus, the district court
appropriately assessed the leadership enhancement. [fn6]
The district court did not err in applying the enhancement.
D. Rabies's Remaining Issues
Robles also argues that his conviction should be reversed based
on ineffective assistance of counsel. Specifically, he alleges
his counsel erred in failing to pursue the possibility of juror
misconduct and in failing to challenge the admissibility of
evidence that Garcia sought the help of an alleged Mexican
witch to protect him from Robles.
"[G]enerally, ineffective assistance of counsel claims are
better left for post-conviction proceedings" under 28 U.S.C. § 2255 . United States v. Rice , 449 F.3d 887 , 897 (8th Cir. 2006) (quoting United States v. Cook , 356 F.3d 913 , 919 (8th Cir. 2004)). We will not hear ineffective
assistance claims on direct appeal unless the record is fully
developed and our failure to act would be a "plain miscarriage
of justice" or the counsel's errors are "readily apparent." See United States v. Orr , 636 F.3d 944 , 950 (8th
Cir. 2011); United States v. Ramirez-Hernandez , 449 F.3d 824 , 827 (8th Cir. 2006).
The record is devoid of facts needed to enable the court to
evaluate Robles's claim against his attorney. To properly
evaluate Robles's claim that his attorney erred in failing to
contest the possible juror misconduct and in failing to object
to Garcia's witch-related testimony, we would need to hear
testimony from the attorney explaining his decision not to
pursue [**7] those issues. The attorney's failure to pursue the
issues may very well have been correct, as pursuing them may
have been frivolous and possibly detrimental to the defense
strategy. We need further information to determine whether the
attorney erred in failing to pursue the issues and whether that
failure was prejudicial to Robles. Where the evaluation of an
ineffective [*366] assistance claim requires development of facts outside the
record, those claims are not appropriately considered on direct
appeal. United States v. Looking Cloud , 419 F.3d 781 , 788-89 (8th Cir. 2005). Because we would have to look outside
the record to evaluate Robles's claims, we cannot appropriately
consider it on appeal.
Additionally, Robles argues that his two concurrent sentences
of 600 months imprisonment are cruel and unusual punishment
under the Eighth Amendment .
"It is exceedingly rare for an offense that does not have a
capital sentence to violate the Eighth Amendment , which forbids
only extreme sentences that are grossly disproportionate to the
crime." Murphy v. King , 652 F.3d 845 , 849 (8th
Cir. 2011) (quoting United States v. Wiest , 596 F.3d 906 , 911 (8th Cir. 2010)). In evaluating whether a sentence
violates the Eighth Amendment , we "address the gravity of the
offense compared to the harshness of the penalty." United States v. Paton , 535 F.3d 829 , 837 (8th Cir. 2008) (quoting United States v. Weis , 487 F.3d 1148 , 1154 (8th
Cir. 2007)). The Supreme Court has found that a state may
enforce a punishment of life imprisonment for possession of 650
grams of cocaine with intent to distribute without violating
the Eighth Amendment . Harmelin v. Michigan , 501 U.S. 957 , 988 , 111 S.Ct. 2680 , 115 L.Ed.2d 836 (1991). Certainly
then, a sentence of 600 months for Robles's possession of five
kilograms of cocaine does not violate the Eighth Amendment .
Additionally, "[a] sentence within statutory limits is
generally not subject to review under the Eighth Amendment ." United States v. Murphy , 899 F.2d 714 , 719 (8th
Cir. 1990). Robles was convicted of conspiring to distribute
over 5 kilograms of cocaine and over 50 grams of
methamphetamine under 21 U.S.C. § 841 . The applicable
portion of the statute provides for punishment between ten
years and life imprisonment. See 21 U.S.C. § 841 (b)(1)(A). The kidnapping statute under which Robles was
convicted, 18 U.S.C. § 1201 , allows for punishment of up to
life imprisonment. Robles's two 600 month terms were well
within the punishments prescribed by statute. For these
reasons, we conclude Robles's sentence is not grossly
disproportionate to the crimes he committed.
III. Rodriguez
Rodriguez argues that the district court erred in not entering
a role reduction at sentencing to reflect Rodriguez's minor
role in the drug conspiracy. See USSG § 3B1.2 .
Rodriguez's argument is based on his contention that he is a
simple, uneducated individual who cannot read, write, or speak
English and was unable to comprehend the full extent of the
drug conspiracy. Additionally, Rodriguez introduced evidence
that he frequently could not find his way home from car trips
alone and could not be relied upon by Garcia to deliver drugs.
Finally, Rodriguez argues he was clearly less culpable than
other participants of the conspiracy.
We review the district court's denial of the role reduction for
clear error. United States v. Camacho , 348 F.3d 696 , 700 (8th Cir. 2003).
"The propriety of a downward adjustment [**8] is determined by
comparing the acts of each participant in relation to the
relevant conduct for which the participant is held accountable
and by measuring each participant's individual acts and
relative culpability against the elements of the offense." United States v. Bradley , 643 F.3d 1121 , 1129 (8th
Cir. 2011) (quoting United States v. Morales , 445 F.3d 1081 , 1085 (8th Cir. 2006)). However, though relative
culpability of conspirators is relevant [*367] to the minor participant determination, "our cases make it
clear that merely showing the defendant was less culpable than
other participants is not enough to entitle the defendant to
the adjustment if the defendant was `deeply involved' in the
offense." United States v. Bush , 352 F.3d 1177 , 1182 (8th Cir. 2003). Rather, "[t]o prove entitlement to the
adjustment, the defendant must prove he or she is [a] minor
participant by comparison with other participants and by
comparison with the offense for which he or she was held
accountable." Id . (emphasis added).
The evidence presented at trial shows that Rodriguez was deeply
involved in the conspiracy. Manuel Sanchez testified that when
he sold drugs, he gave the money for the drugs to Rodriguez and
that it was Rodriguez who instructed him to carry a gun.
Further, Sanchez stated that the drugs he sold were supplied to
him by Tapia, whose supplier was Rodriguez, indicating
Rodriguez was higher up in the conspiracy chain than at least
two other members of the conspiracy. Rodriguez lived in the
main drug house used by the conspiracy in Sioux City, and
Garcia testified that Rodriguez helped him move and unload the
13 kilograms of methamphetamine to the storage locker in
Minneapolis. When arrested, Rodriguez was in a car with Garcia.
When Sanchez was asked whether Sanchez participated in the
processing of drugs, he answered negatively and stated
Rodriguez was in charge of that. This testimony indicated that
Rodriguez was deeply involved in the conspiracy and was at
least as culpable, and likely more culpable, than many of his
coconspirators.
Though Rodriguez argues the district court failed to properly
consider his lack of education and other mitigating factors,
those factors are not relevant to the minor role reduction; the
propriety of awarding a minor role reduction rests on
culpability alone. See Bradley , 643 F.3d at 1129 . The
district court considered the mitigating and aggravating
factors under 18 U.S.C. § 3553 but correctly considered
only Rodriguez's culpability in determining whether the role
reduction was warranted.
IV. Conclusion
We affirm Robles's conviction and sentence and affirm
Rodriguez's sentence.
[fn1] The Honorable Mark W. Bennett, United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Iowa.
[fn2] In the fall of 2009, Garcia moved his operation to Sioux
City, Iowa, days before his home in Omaha was raided by
police.
[fn3] A defendant is responsible for the quantity of drugs
involved in a conspiracy when that quantity is reasonably
foreseeable to the defendant, and a defendant's role in the
conspiracy is relevant for determining what should be
foreseeable to the defendant. See United States v. Ramon-Rodriguez , 492 F.3d 930 , 942 (8th Cir. 2007). Where a
defendant holds "a position within the conspiracy with adequate
exposure to information about the conspiracy," the potential of
the conspiracy is more foreseeable to him than it would be to a
"onetime mule [or] an ignorant patsy." See id . Robles
played a significant role in the conspiracy, originally had a
close relationship with Garcia, and supplied the conspiracy
with large amounts of cocaine. Robles was in a position of
authority in the conspiracy that allowed him to be aware of the
large amounts of drugs distributed by the conspiracy. A
reasonable jury could have found that it should have been
foreseeable to Robles that a conspiracy that distributed large
quantities of drugs would continue to acquire and distribute
large amounts of drugs.
[fn4] We note that on appeal, Robles does not challenge the
district court's consideration of the 50 grams of
methamphetamine as relevant conduct at sentencing, rather, he
challenges only the sufficiency of the evidence at the trial
stage.
[fn5] The hearsay evidence was admitted under the coconspirator
exception found at Rule 801 (d)(2)(E) of the Federal Rules of
Evidence.
[fn6] An increased sentence for a defendant may also be
appropriate where the defendant had "management responsibility
over the . . . criminal organization." See USSG
§ 3B1.1 , comment, (n. 4). In addition to Robles's supervision of
Tito, Robles's management of Tapia's kidnapping was extensive.
The evidence indicated that Robles was the instigator of the
kidnapping, which he engineered to force Garcia to pay back the
$100,000 owed to Robles. Additionally, Robles played a major
part in the actual commission of the kidnapping. Tapia
testified at trial that Robles told Tapia during the kidnapping
that Robles would kill Tapia if he did not lead Robles to
Garcia. Tapia also testified Robles was the person who blocked
his escape and bound him during the kidnapping, and that Robles
put a gun in Tapia's mouth during the kidnapping while
threatening to kill him.
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | F.3d
** | BL

