[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit.
UNITED STATES of America, Plaintiff-Appellee, v. Tony HARRIS, also
known as California Red; Lakendrick Miller, also known as Pee Wee,
Defendants-Appellants.
No. 10-41205.
January 3, 2012.
Laurel Franklin Coan, Jr. (argued), Richard Lee Moore,
Asst. U.S. Attys., Tyler, TX, for Plaintiff-Appellee.
Gena Blount Bunn (argued), (Court-Appointed), Holmes
& Moore, P.L.L.C., Longview, TX, F. Clinton Broden (argued),
Broden & Mickelsen, Dallas, TX, for Defendants-Appellants.
Appeals from the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Texas.
Before JONES, Chief Judge, and DAVIS and DeMOSS, Circuit
Judges.
W. EUGENE DAVIS, Circuit Judge:
Defendants Tony Harris and Lakendrick Miller appeal their
convictions on several counts of money laundering and
conspiracy to commit money laundering principally on the basis
that the evidence at trial was insufficient to establish that
the proven transactions involved proceeds of specified unlawful
activity, namely drug trafficking. We agree and reverse.
I.
Defendants Tony Harris and Lakendrick Miller, along with five
other individuals, were indicted by a grand jury on money
laundering charges. Harris was charged with one count of
conspiracy to launder monetary instruments, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956 (h), and six counts of money laundering and
attempted money laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956 (a)(1)(B)(i). [fn1] Miller was charged with one count of
conspiracy to launder monetary instruments, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956 (h), and two counts of money laundering and
attempted money laundering, in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1956 (a)(1)(B)(i). After a jury trial, the defendants were found
guilty of all counts. In the forfeiture phase of the trial, the
jury found that Harris and Miller had laundered $1.5 million in
connection with the conspiracy. The jury also determined that
five vehicles and approximately $18,000 in seized currency were
involved in the offense.
Harris was sentenced to 293 months imprisonment and 3 years
supervised release. Miller was sentenced to 252 months
imprisonment and 3 years supervised release. The court entered
judgments of forfeiture against both, which included a money
judgment in the amount of $1.5 million.
Although no drug charges were brought, the government presented
evidence that Harris, Miller and the other defendants were
engaged in the sale and distribution of narcotics —
mainly codeine cough syrup. Harris obtained the drugs in
California and shipped them to East Texas to Miller and others.
Miller and others in East Texas transmitted payments for the
drugs from East Texas to Harris in California.
Between January 2007 and May 2009, over $2 million was moved
from East Texas [*907] through Miller and his associates to Harris and his
associates in California. The fund transfers were made in two
main ways —
1. Miller's group made cash deposits into the accounts
  of Harris, Harris's supplier and Harris's friend at a
  Bank of America branch in Dallas, Texas, which were
  then withdrawn by Harris or others at Bank of America
  locations in the Los Angeles area.
2. Miller or other members in his group [**2] wired money to
  Harris or to Harris's associates using MoneyGram.
Almost all of the transactions were for amounts less than
$10,000 so as to avoid federal bank reporting requirements.
Four of the other defendants indicted along with Harris and
Miller pled guilty. Charges against the remaining defendant
were dismissed by the government. Harris and Miller timely
appealed.
II.
Harris and Miller were found guilty of money laundering under 18 U.S.C. § 1956 (a)(1)(B)(i) which punishes conducting or
attempting to conduct a financial transaction which involves
the proceeds of specified unlawful activity, knowing that the
transaction is designed in whole or in part to conceal or
disguise the nature, the location, the source, the ownership,
or the control of the proceeds of specified unlawful activity.
Harris and Miller assert that the district court erred by
denying their motions for judgment of acquittal. They argue
that the evidence presented by the government at trial was
insufficient to establish that they conducted financial
transactions with proceeds of specified unlawful activity or
that were designed to conceal. We need not consider their
arguments regarding concealment because we agree that the
government failed to prove that the transactions involved
proceeds of unlawful activity.
Because both defendants moved for judgment of acquittal on all
counts at the close of the government's case and after the
defense rested, this court reviews their claims for
insufficient evidence de novo. United States v. Penaloza-Duarte , 473 F.3d 575 , 579 (5th Cir. 2006). All
evidence is reviewed in the light most favorable to the verdict
to determine whether a rational trier of fact could have found
that the evidence established their guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt. Id .
For their argument that the evidence was insufficient to
establish that they conducted financial transactions with
proceeds of specified unlawful activity, the defendants rely on United States v. Gaytan , 74 F.3d 545 (5th Cir. 1996)
and United States v. Dimeck , 24 F.3d 1239 (10th
Cir. 1994).
In Gaytan , Defendant Rene Gandara-Granillo and Jesse
Macias-Munoz were leaders of a large cocaine operation based in
El Paso, Texas. Alfred Gaytan was a lower level operative who
participated in several meetings involving drug transactions
and on at least one occasion stored and counted large
quantities of cocaine at his residence. Macias and Gandara
challenged their convictions for money laundering under 18 U.S.C. § 1956 (a)(1)(A)(i) which requires proof that a
defendant conducted or attempted to conduct a financial
transaction which he knew involved proceeds from unlawful
activity with the intent to promote or further unlawful
activity. Macias and Gandara argued that there was insufficient
evidence that they conducted a financial transaction, relying
on United States v. Puig-Infante , 19 F.3d 929 , 938 (5th Cir. 1994). In Puig-Infante , this court defined
when a transaction occurs (which is not an issue in this case),
but also [*908]
observed that funds do not become the proceeds of drug
  trafficking until a sale of drugs is completed. Hence,
  a transaction to pay [**3] for illegal drugs is not money
  laundering, because the funds involved are not
  proceeds of an unlawful activity when the transaction
  occurs, but become so only after the transaction is
  completed.
Gaytan , 74 F.3d at 555-56 , discussing Puig-Infante. This court reversed Macias's and
Gandara's convictions on two counts. Under both counts, a third
party owed Marias money for a drug debt. Marias sent others to
retrieve it. The money did not become drug proceeds until
received and there was no evidence that the courier obtained
the money through illegal activity. Convictions on other counts
were affirmed after this court rejected the defendants'
contentions that no transaction took place.
In United States v. Dimeck , 24 F.3d 1239 (10th
Cir. 1994), the defendant argued that "mere delivery of alleged
drug-money by one courier to a second courier, who was to
deliver the money to the seller of the drugs, does not
constitute money laundering under 1956(a)(1)(B)(i) ." Id. at 1241 . The facts of the case involved physical
delivery of cash by Dimeck (the first courier) to Moore (the
second courier), who was to physically deliver the funds to the
supplier. The Tenth Circuit stated that "Congress aimed the
crime of money laundering at conduct that follows in time the underlying crime rather than to afford an
alternative means of punishing the prior `specified unlawful
activity.'" Id. at 1244 , quoting United States v. Edgmon , 952 F.2d 1206 , 1213-14 (10th Cir. 1991) (emphasis
added in Dimeck ). The court characterized the
transaction in the case as one in which the seller wanted to
receive the illegal proceeds as illegal funds. The use of
Dimeck and the second courier were not to confuse anyone as to
the character of the funds or to assist the funds to enter
legitimate commerce. The courier's only role was to delivery
the fund to the seller. Therefore, the court found no
concealment. The case also discusses whether the delivery in
question followed in time the completion of the underlying
transaction. It characterized the transaction as between a
distributor getting drugs to his middlemen, who then sell the
drugs, collect the money and pay the distributor for the drugs
— similar to the facts of this case. Dimeck involved the final stage of the drug transaction —
payment to the supplier. Even though the money was concealed
for transport, the delivery of the payment was not money
laundering. "The money laundering statute was designed to
punish those drug dealers who thereafter take the additional
step of attempting to legitimize their proceeds so that
observers think their money is derived from legal enterprises." Id. at 1247 , citing Edgmon.
United States v. Puig-Infante , 19 F.3d 929 (5th
Cir. 1994), discussed in Gaytan , involved a marijuana
ring operating between Mexico and Houston. The relevant facts
from Puig-Infante involved two of the defendants in
the case. One of the drivers for the ring testified that Jose
and Abigail Puig requested that she accompany Abigail on a trip
from Laredo to Florida where they were delivering a load of
marijuana. Two buyers met them in Okeechobee, Florida, at a
motel and gave Abigail $47,000 for the drugs. After the
exchange, the driver and Abigail [**4] returned to Laredo with the
cash. This court held that Abigail's transportation of the
money received in exchange for the marijuana was not a
financial transaction within the meaning of § 1956 . In
response to the government's argument that the delivery and
transfer of the cash from the buyers to Abigail in Florida and
her subsequent movement of the funds interstate constitutes [*909] a financial transaction, this court stated that "the money
did not become proceeds of unlawful activity until the
sale of the marijuana was completed " upon delivery to
Abigail. Id. at 939 .
In the above cases, the money laundering convictions failed for
two reasons — the transportation of funds was not a
"transaction" within the meaning of § 1956 and/or the funds
transferred were not yet proceeds of specified unlawful
activity because the funds themselves were payment for drugs
and the unlawful act was not yet complete. Clearly in this
case, we have "transactions" in the form of deposits and
withdrawals and wire transfers. See 18 U.S.C. § 1956 (c)(3)
and (c)(4)(A) . [fn2] The question is whether the funds involved
in those transactions were proceeds of unlawful activity.
The defendants argue that the drug transactions in this case
were not completed and the funds did not become proceeds of
unlawful activity until Miller paid Harris for the drugs
received. Therefore the financial transactions used to make
this payment, i.e. the deposits and withdrawals and wire
transfers that form the basis of the money laundering charges,
did not involve proceeds of unlawful activity. The government
argued the case to the jury along those lines saying in opening
argument —
In any drug transaction there are drugs going one way
  and money coming back the other way. That's the nature
  of a drug transaction. Now, because drug transactions
  are illegal, they have to be concealed by those people
  who are participating in them. The people who are
  transporting and distributing the drugs have to
  conceal their actions. Likewise, the people that are
  paying the money, transporting the money and
  distributing the money have to conceal their actions.
  That's the nature of drug transactions, that they have
  to be concealed from law enforcement, both the drugs
  and the money.
Based on the case law cited above, mere payment of the purchase
price for drugs by whatever means (even by a financial
transaction as defined in § 1956 ) does not constitute money
laundering.
Our review of the trial transcript indicates that the
government presented this case to the jury along the theory
outlined in their opening statement. Evidence was presented
regarding Harris's source for drugs in California, how he moved
the drugs from California to East Texas to Miller and others
and how Miller and others transferred funds in payment back to
Harris in California using bank deposits and commercial wire
services. In its closing argument, the government summarized
the evidence that the funds transferred from Miller to Harris
were drug proceeds by pointing to the testimony of three
witnesses — Edson Frank Curtis, Timothy Taylor and
Stephen Baker. Curtis and [**5] Taylor testified about the movement
of drugs and money between Harris and Miller and their
associates. Baker testified about gambling with Miller and [*910] losing and providing Miller with pill and codeine syrup.
The testimony of these witnesses and other witnesses at trial
simply showed that Harris supplied Miller and others with drugs
and Miller and others sent payments in various forms back to
Harris. These facts are simply not enough to meet the
government's burden of showing that the funds transferred from
Miller to Harris were proceeds of drug trafficking or anything
other than payment of the purchase price for drugs. Money does
not become proceeds of illegal activity until the unlawful
activity is complete. The crime of money laundering is targeted
at the activities that generally follow the unlawful activity
in time. Considering the evidence in the light most favorable
to the jury's verdict, the evidence is insufficient to support
Harris's and Miller's convictions for money laundering.
III.
For the foregoing reasons, the judgments of conviction are
reversed and rendered and the defendants' sentences and
judgments of forfeiture are vacated.
REVERSED and RENDERED.
[fn1] § 1956 . Laundering of monetary instruments
(a)(1) Whoever, knowing that the property involved in
  a financial transaction represents the proceeds of
  some form of unlawful activity, conducts or attempts
  to conduct such a financial transaction which in fact
  involves the proceeds of specified unlawful activity
  —
. . .
(B) knowing that the transaction is designed in whole
  or in part —
(i) to conceal or disguise the nature, the location,
  the source, the ownership, or the control of the
  proceeds of specified unlawful activity; or
. . .
shall be sentenced to a fine of not more than $500,000
  or twice the value of the property involved in the
  transaction, whichever is greater, or imprisonment for
  not more than twenty years, or both. For purposes of
  this paragraph, a financial transaction shall be
  considered to be one involving the proceeds of
  specified unlawful activity if it is part of a set of
  parallel or dependent transactions, any one of which
  involves the proceeds of specified unlawful activity,
  and all of which are part of a single plan or
  arrangement.
18 U.S.C.A. § 1956 .
[fn2] 18 U.S.C. § 1956 (c)(3) states "the term `transaction'
includes a purchase, sale, loan, pledge, gift, transfer,
delivery, or other disposition, and with respect to a financial
institution includes a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between
accounts, exchange of currency,. . . . or any other payment,
transfer, or delivery by, through, or to a financial
institution by whatever means effected . . ."
18 U.S.C. § 1956 (c)(4)(A) defines "financial
  transaction" as "a transaction which in any way or
  degree affects interstate or foreign commerce (i)
  involving the movement of funds by wire or other means
  or (ii) involving one or more monetary instruments
  . . ."
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | F.3d
** | BL

