[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit.
David M. SCHNEIDER, Plaintiff-Appellant, v. Michael HARDESTY et al.,
Defendants, Thomas Nelson, Defendant-Appellee.
No. 09-3892.
Argued: October 12, 2011.
Decided and Filed: February 23, 2012.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the Southern District
of Ohio, Susan J. Dlott, Chief Judge.
[EDITORS' NOTE:  THIS PAGE CONTAINS HEADNOTES. HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN
OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.] [*695]
ARGUED: Brian S. Sullivan, Dinsmore & Shohl, Cincinnati, Ohio, for
Appellant. Michelle Sheehan, Reminger, Cleveland, Ohio, for Appellee. ON BRIEF: Brian S. Sullivan, Seth A. Schwartz, Dinsmore & Shohl,
Cincinnati, Ohio, for Appellant. Thomas E. Nelson, Salt Lake City, Utah,
pro se.
Before: MOORE and ROGERS, Circuit Judges; HOOD, District Judge. [fn*]
[fn*] The Honorable Joseph M. Hood, United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Kentucky, sitting by designation.
OPINION
KAREN NELSON MOORE, Circuit Judge.
Plaintiff David M. Schneider ("Schneider") appeals the district court's
dismissal of his claims against defendant Thomas Nelson ("Nelson") for
lack of personal jurisdiction. Schneider argues that the district court
improperly applied the preponderance-of-the-evidence standard, as opposed
to the prima facie standard, in determining whether Schneider pleaded
facts sufficient to establish personal jurisdiction over Nelson.
Schneider further argues that the district court erred in finding there
is no personal jurisdiction over Nelson in Ohio. We conclude that the
district court improperly granted the motion to dismiss. Because the
exercise of jurisdiction comports with due process and is proper under
Ohio's long-arm statute even under the more demanding
preponderance-of-the-evidence standard, we REVERSE the district court's
judgment and REMAND for further proceedings consistent with this
opinion.
I. BACKGROUND
In 2001, Michael Hardesty ("Hardesty"), a resident of Utah, solicited
Schneider, a resident of Ohio, to participate in an investment program.
Pursuant to the program, Schneider, a medical physician practicing in
Ohio, purchased medical-malpractice insurance from Hardesty's
foreign-based company, Provincial Insurance. [fn1] A portion of the funds
from Schneider's premiums were to be pooled with other premiums, invested
with London Reinsurance to create a captive insurance company, and then
reinvested with Vavasseur Corporation. The investment program was to
provide Schneider with federal-tax benefits and make him a partial owner
of London Reinsurance in proportion to the amount of his investment.
In December 2001, Schneider mailed a $550,000 insurance-premium payment
to Provincial Insurance. Provincial Insurance pooled Schneider's premium
with other premiums and transferred the funds to London Reinsurance.
London Reinsurance then placed the funds in the Bank of Butterfield in
Europe. When London Re-insurance attempted to transfer the funds to
Vavasseur, it learned that the Bank of Butterfield had frozen the assets
because of SEC proceedings against Vavasseur. Unbeknownst to Schneider,
Vavasseur was in fact a Ponzi scheme that had [**2] received investments in
excess of one-hundred million dollars. [fn2]
In 2003, Hardesty hired Nelson, an attorney licensed to practice in
Utah, to assist with the recovery of London Reinsurance's assets from the
Bank of Butterfield. [*696] By virtue of this employment, Nelson became the "authorized agent . . .
[t]o sign on behalf of London Reinsurance." R. 7 (Ex. A, Nelson SEC Dep.
at 81:18-22).
In September 2003, at Hardesty's request, Nelson drafted a letter
addressed "To Whom It May Concern" directed at the doctors and medical
practices whose premiums were invested in London Reinsurance. R. 30 (Ex.
C, Letter dated Sept. 29, 2003). The letter introduced Nelson as an
attorney "retained by Mike Hardesty . . . to assist in recovering the
funds that were invested with and managed by Terry Dowdell," id. at 1 ,
and was drafted with Nelson's signature block, R. 30 (Ex. B, Nelson Dep.
at 22:24-23:14). In the letter, Nelson summarized efforts to recover
London Reinsurance's assets and stated that "the name, address, and
contact information for each insured or medical practice" had been
provided to the Bank of Butterfield in aid of return of the funds. R. 30
(Ex. C, Letter dated Sept. 29, 2003 at 2). Nelson acknowledged that
Hardesty was under investigation by the SEC, but attested to Hardesty's
"integrity and honesty." Id. at 3 . The letter concluded by stating that
"every effort is being made to obtain a 100% return of your funds." Id . Nelson gave the letter to Hardesty, but did not participate in mailing it
to any of the investors.
In December 2003, at Hardesty's request, Nelson drafted a second "To
Whom It May Concern" letter with Nelson's signature block. R. 30 (Ex. D,
Letter dated Dec. 5, 2003). In that letter, Nelson requested that the
investors provide Hardesty with a copy of their current medical license,
confirmation or documentation of membership in any medical associations,
a copy of their current passport or drivers license, and a current e-mail
address, home address, and telephone number. Nelson concluded by stating
"we are totally focused in our efforts to obtain a 100% return of all
funds" and "foreign counsel has already been authorized to move forward
with legal proceedings against the bank should negotiations fail to
deliver the desired results." Id . Nelson gave the letter to Hardesty, but
did not participate in mailing it to any of the investors. Schneider
maintains that he responded to Nelson's second letter by sending the
information requested. [fn3] Nelson testified that because investors were
instructed to send the information to Hardesty, Nelson "did not review
the contents of the "package" that contained the information sent by
investors. R. 30 (Ex. B, Nelson Dep. at 38:18-39:9).
On December 8, 2006, Schneider filed a lawsuit against multiple
defendants, including Hardesty and Nelson, alleging fraud and
misrepresentation, among other claims. Schneider alleged that the two
letters written by Nelson contained false and misleading statements by
which Nelson furthered the scheme to defraud Schneider. Schneider
contended that Nelson's actions induced reliance thereby harming
Schneider.
Nelson moved to dismiss [**3] Schneider's complaint for lack of personal
jurisdiction. In response to Nelson's motion, Schneider requested leave
to conduct limited discovery on the issue of jurisdiction. [fn4] The
district court granted Schneider's request and permitted Schneider to
depose Nelson. During the deposition, Nelson stated that Hardesty had
told him the names of some of the investors, but that he could not [*697] "recall" whether the names he was provided constituted "a complete list
or not." R. 30 (Ex. B, Nelson Dep. at 29:6-10). Nelson also stated that
when he provided the letters to Hardesty, he was "[c]ertainly" aware that
Hardesty might distribute them to investors. Id. at 35:20-24 .
After the parties submitted additional briefing, the magistrate judge
issued his report and recommendation. In finding personal jurisdiction
lacking, the magistrate judge stated:
[w]hat's missing . . . is any indication from
  plaintiff, who has not filed an affidavit or a
  verified complaint in this case, that he in [any way]
  relied upon the information or representations in
  either letter to either take action or refrain from
  taking action. There is no allegation that plaintiff
  understood the letters to mean that Nelson was his
  legal representative or that the letters otherwise had
  any effect on plaintiffs conduct. In other words, as
  far as the Court is aware at this time, the letters
  did not lead to any course of conduct between the
  parties. Without some modicum of proof that the
  letters caused or contributed to harm suffered by
  plaintiff, or that the plaintiff relied on the
  statements set forth in the letters, the Court is at a
  loss to understand how one can conclude that the
  letters created a connection with the forum state or
  caused a consequence in the forum state.
R. 28 (Report and Recommendation at 11). The district court adopted the
report and recommendation in full, granted Nelson's motion to dismiss,
and certified its order as final and appealable pursuant to Federal Rule
of Civil Procedure 54 (b). Schneider now appeals.
II. ANALYSIS
A. Standard of Review
"`We review de novo a district court's dismissal of a complaint for
lack of personal jurisdiction pursuant to Rule 12 (b)(2) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure.'" Gerber v. Riordan , 649 F.3d 514 , 517 (6th
Cir. 2011) (quoting Bird v. Parsons , 289 F.3d 865 , 871 (6th Cir. 2002)).
B. Standard of Proof for Personal Jurisdiction
"The party seeking to assert personal jurisdiction bears the burden of
demonstrating that such jurisdiction exists." Bird , 289 F.3d at 871 . In Serras v. First Tennessee Bank National Association , this Circuit
explained that "[t]he weight of [the] burden . . . depends on whether the
trial court chooses to rule on written submissions or to hear evidence on
the personal-jurisdiction issue. . . ." 875 F.2d 1212 , 1214 (6th Cir.
1989). When the district court "rules on written submissions alone" the
burden consists of "a prima facie showing that personal jurisdiction
exists." Id . When a pretrial-evidentiary hearing is conducted, the
preponderance-of-the-evidence standard applies. Id . We explained that this
rule prevents a defendant from "defeat[ing] personal jurisdiction merely
by filing a written affidavit contradicting [**4] jurisdictional facts alleged
by a plaintiff while simultaneously allowing a defendant to "invoke the
court's discretion to order a pretrial evidentiary hearing" and
thereafter apply the more-exacting standard when a plaintiffs
jurisdictional allegations are wholly unfounded. Id .
Serras , however, did not speak to the scenario presented in this case
where some discovery was conducted, but an evidentiary hearing was not
held. Schneider argues that the district court improperly applied the
preponderance-of-the-evidence standard, as opposed to the less-demanding
prima facie standard, in the absence of an evidentiary hearing. Nelson
counters that the district court properly applied the
preponderance-of-the-evidence standard [*698] because Schneider received all of the discovery that he requested and
there were no outstanding factual issues in dispute. [fn5] Nelson relies
on Dean v. Motel 6 Operating L.P. in support of this argument. 134 F.3d 1269 (6th Cir. 1998).
In Dean , the jurisdictional dispute concerned the control exercised by
a company, Accor, over a related corporate entity, Motel 6 Operating. Id. at 1273 . The district court allowed "extensive discovery" in aid of
the jurisdictional issue, though not all of the discovery Dean
requested, but did not hold an evidentiary hearing. Id. at 1272 , 1274 . On
appeal, we held that the district court erred in applying the
preponderance-of-the-evidence standard "because (although there was
discovery) there was no evidentiary hearing on the jurisdiction
question." Id. at 1272 . The panel went on to state that "we would not use
this standard if the reason for not having an evidentiary hearing was
that there was no `real dispute' as to the facts or to the extent of
discovery." Id . (citing Int'l Techs. Consultants, Inc. v. Euroglas S.A. , 107 F.3d 386 , 391 (6th Cir. 1997)). Nelson argues that this statement
delineated an exception to the prima facie standard in the absence of an
evidentiary hearing when no "real dispute" exists. [fn6]
Neither Nelson nor the magistrate judge identified a case applying this
exception in the thirteen years since the decision in Dean , and, because
the statement was not essential to the Dean holding, it is arguably
dicta. [fn7] Assuming arguendo the exception does exist, the question
arises as to whether Dean 's use of the conjunction "or" implies that the
exception applies only when there is no "real dispute" both as to the
scope of discovery and as to the relevant facts, or whether the absence
of a dispute as to either element is individually sufficient. International Technologies Consultants , which Dean cites in support,
suggests that both elements need to be satisfied before the exception
applies. International Technologies Consultants recognized that the
application of the prima facie standard "loses some of its significance"
when there is neither a dispute as [*699] to the jurisdictional facts nor a dispute regarding the scope of
discovery. 107 F.3d at 391 . International Technologies Consultants read
in conjunction with Serras would suggest that any exception created in Dean was aimed at those rare instances in which a plaintiff [**5] has been
granted all discovery requested and that discovery resulted in an
undisputed set of facts such that an evidentiary hearing would be
pointless.
Counsel admitted at oral argument that Schneider received all discovery
requested. Nelson also argues that there are no outstanding factual
disputes. We disagree. It is clear that the extent of Nelson's knowledge
of the locations of the recipients of the "To Whom It May Concern"
letters remains very much in dispute. Each party gleans different
inferences from Nelson's deposition testimony, and neither party's
factual conclusion is air tight. Moreover, that Nelson's deposition
resolved some of the outstanding factual issues, i.e. , whether an
attorney-client relationship existed between Nelson and Schneider, is of
no moment. [fn8] Other facts pertinent to the jurisdictional inquiry,
namely the exact extent of Nelson's knowledge of the locations of the
investors, remain in dispute.
Ultimately, we need not decide conclusively whether the exception
alluded to in Dean in fact exists or whether it should apply in this
instance. For the reasons that follow, Schneider has demonstrated
personal jurisdiction over Nelson in Ohio even under the more exacting
standard imposed by the district court — the
preponderance-of-the-evidence standard.
C. Personal Jurisdiction
In a diversity case, a plaintiff must satisfy the state-law
requirements for personal jurisdiction. Estate of Thomson ex rel. Estate of Rakestraw v. Toyota Motor Corp. Worldwide , 545 F.3d 357 , 361 (6th
Cir. 2008). Thus, Schneider must demonstrate that both due process and
Ohio's long-arm statute are satisfied. Id . "We have recognized that
Ohio's long-arm statute is not coterminous with federal constitutional
limits." Id . Therefore, we begin by analyzing whether the requirements of
Ohio's long-arm statute are met and then separately consider whether the
exercise of jurisdiction would comport with due process. Id .
1. Ohio's Long-Arm Statute
Ohio's long-arm statute establishes a statutory basis for jurisdiction
over foreign defendants. It states:
(A) A court may exercise personal jurisdiction over a
  person who acts directly or by an agent, as to a cause
  of action arising from the person's:
(1) Transacting any business in this state;
(2) contracting to supply services or goods in this
  state;
. . .
(6) causing tortious injury in this state to any
  person by an act outside this state committed with the
  purpose of injuring persons, when he might reasonably
  have expected that some person would be injured
  thereby in this state. . . .
OHIO REV. CODE ANN. § 2307.382 (A).
Schneider argues that jurisdiction is proper pursuant to Ohio's
long-arm statute [*700] under two distinct theories. First, Schneider argues that Hardesty acted
as Nelson's agent thereby both transacting business and contracting to
supply services in Ohio under OHIO REV. CODE ANN. § 2307.382 (A)(1) and 2307.382 (A)(2). Second, Schneider argues that, by drafting the "To Whom
It May Concern" letters and turning them over to Hardesty, Nelson caused
reasonably expected tortious injury within the meaning of OHIO REV. CODE
ANN. § 2307.382 (A)(6). Because jurisdiction [**6] is proper under §
2307.382(A)(6), we decline to reach the merits of Schneider's agency
argument.
Although this Circuit has not had much occasion to consider the
contours of § 2307.382(A)(6), the district courts have given it
considerable attention and generally "taken a broad approach" to its
application. Grigor v. Starmark Hospitality Group LLC , No. 2:10-cv-20 ,
[ 2010 BL 130856 ], 2010 WL 2403137, at *5 (S.D.Ohio June 10, 2010) (quoting Shaker Constr. Group, LLC v. Schilling , No. I:08cv278 , [ 2008 BL 210407 ], 2008 WL 4346777, at *4 (S.D.Ohio
Sept. 18, 2008)). Of particular note, district courts have found that
fraudulent communications or misrepresentations directed at Ohio
residents satisfy § 2307.382(A)(6) 's requirements. See, e.g., id . [fn9]
Vlach v. Yaple from the Northern District of Ohio is particularly
instructive and persuasive. In Vlach , the plaintiff alleged that she
received three communications from the defendant — one letter and two
emails — in violation of various federal-consumer-protection statutes. 670 F.Supp.2d 644 , 646 , 648 (N.D.Ohio 2009). The defendant argued
that, although the communications contained his signature block, "he did
not compose, review, or authorize" the communications and submitted an
affidavit in support of that fact. Id. at 646 . The district court,
applying the prima facie standard in light of limited discovery and no
evidentiary hearing, concluded that the plaintiff had made a sufficient
jurisdictional showing under § 2307.382(A)(6) to survive a motion to
dismiss. Id. at 647-48 . The court stated that "[b]y allegedly sending
`false, deceptive, or misleading' representations . . . [the defendant]
should have reasonably expected that the recipient would have been
injured in [Ohio], given that the letter was addressed to an Ohio
resident." Id. at 648 .
The conduct that Schneider identifies of Nelson is strikingly similar.
While the defendant in Vlach disputed the fact that he prepared the
written communication, in this case Nelson disputes his knowledge of the
location of the letters' recipients. Here, as in Vlach , this factual
dispute is insufficient to defeat jurisdiction, and we hold that this
remains true under the preponderance-of-the-evidence standard. As
previously discussed, Nelson's argument that he has no knowledge of the
locations of the investors belies actual representations made by Nelson.
Nelson explicitly acknowledged that he was involved in the transmission
of the investors' names and addresses to the Bank of Butterfield. It
defies logic that Nelson participated in this transmission, but remained
ignorant of the [*701] investors' geographic locations. If true, the only possible explanation
is that Nelson intentionally buried his head in the sand, and that cannot
save Nelson from being subject to jurisdiction in Ohio. Thus, accepting
Nelson's knowledge of the locations of the investors, the case against
him is even stronger than in Vlach and surpasses muster under the Ohio
long-arm statute under a preponderance-of-the-evidence standard.
Accordingly, we hold that there are sufficient facts to conclude Nelson
should have reasonably expected that the letters would cause injury in
Ohio making the exercise of jurisdiction [**7] proper pursuant to OHIO REV.
CODE ANN. § 2307.382 (A)(6). We now consider whether the exercise of
personal jurisdiction over Nelson in Ohio also comports with due process.
2. Due Process
Due process requires that a defendant have "minimum contacts . . . with
the forum State . . . such that he should reasonably anticipate being
haled into court there." World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson , 444 U.S. 286 , 291 , 297 , 100 S.Ct. 559 , 62 L.Ed.2d 490 (1980). The
presence of such contacts ensures that the exercise of jurisdiction over
the defendant "does not offend `traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.'" Int'l Shoe Co. v. Washington , 326 U.S. 310 , 316 , 66 S.Ct. 154 , 90 L.Ed. 95 (1945) (quoting Milliken v. Meyer , 311 U.S. 457 , 463 , 61 S.Ct. 339 , 85 L.Ed. 278 (1940)). "As a general rule, the
sovereign's exercise of power requires some act by which the defendant
`purposefully avails itself of the privilege of conducting activities
within the forum State, thus invoking the benefits and protections of its
laws. . . .'" J. McIntyre Machinery, Ltd. v. Nicastro , ___ U.S. ___ , 131 S.Ct. 2780 , 2787 , 180 L.Ed.2d 765 (2011) (quoting Hanson v. Denckla , 357 U.S. 235 , 253 , 78 S.Ct. 1228 , 2 L.Ed.2d 1283 (1958)).
There are two forms of personal jurisdiction: general and specific. Indah v. U.S. S.E.C. , 661 F.3d 914 , 920 (6th Cir. 2011). General
jurisdiction is found where contacts "are so continuous and systematic as
to render [a foreign defendant] essentially at home in the forum State." Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown , ___ U.S. ___ , 131 S.Ct. 2846 , 2851 , 180 L.Ed.2d 796 (2011) (internal quotation marks
omitted). Specific jurisdiction "depends on an affiliatio[n] between the
forum and the underlying controversy, principally, activity or an
occurrence that takes place in the forum State and is therefore subject
to the State's regulation." Id . (internal quotation marks omitted).
As Schneider claims only specific jurisdiction over Nelson, we employ
this Circuit's three-part analysis to determine whether jurisdiction
accords with due process. See S. Mach. Co. v. Mohasco Indus., Inc. , 401 F.2d 374 , 381 (6th Cir. 1968). To conclude that the exercise of
jurisdiction is proper, we must find: (1) purposeful availment "of the
privilege of acting in the forum state or causing a consequence in the
forum state," (2) a "cause of action . . . aris[ing] from activities" in
the state, and (3) a "substantial enough connection with the forum state
to make the exercise of jurisdiction over the defendant reasonable." Id.
a. Purposeful Availment
"The purposeful availment requirement ensures that a defendant will not
be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a result of random, fortuitous, or
attenuated contacts, or of the unilateral activity of another party or a
third person." Citizens Bank v. Parnes , 376 Fed.Appx. 496 , 502 (6th
Cir. 2010) (unpublished opinion) (internal quotation marks omitted)
(quoting Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz , 471 U.S. 462 , 475 , 105 S.Ct. 2174 , 85 L.Ed.2d 528 [*702] (1985)). "We have held previously that purposeful availment may exist
when a defendant makes telephone calls and sends facsimiles into the
forum state and such communications `form the bases for the action.'" Intern Corp. v. Henderson , 428 F.3d 605 , 616 (6th Cir. 2005) (quoting Need v. Janssen , 270 F.3d 328 , 332 (6th Cir. 2001)).
The two letters that Schneider received in Ohio "form the bas[i]s for
the action" at issue. See id . However, the magistrate judge's report and
recommendation took issue with Schneider's failure to demonstrate that
the letters induced reliance or established "any course of conduct
between [**8] the parties." R. 28 (Report and Recommendation at 11). We agree
with Schneider that the allegations contained in the complaint
sufficiently plead reliance. Schneider's complaint clearly sets out that
he relied on the representations in Nelson's letter that Nelson was
working to return the funds to Schneider and other investors. [fn10] These
representations were false and misleading. As Nelson admitted during his
deposition, he was acting solely in the interest of London Reinsurance
and his "goal was to get the funds returned to London Reinsurance" rather
than to the individual investors. R. 30 (Ex. B Nelson Dep. at
42:20-44:24). Moreover, the two letters, on their face, indicate that
Schneider's reliance was reasonable: their tone and content is reassuring
and advisory, projecting the impression that Nelson is acting in the best
interests of the investors. The letters imply that Nelson seeks to
establish an ongoing relationship with the investors by promising to
provide updates "as major developments occur," encouraging investors to
contact Nelson with questions, and stating that Nelson will be "as
responsive as possible." R. 30 (Ex. C, Letter dated Sept. 29, 2003 at
3). These representations, indicative of an intent to establish an
ongoing contact, are exactly the kind of conduct recognized to constitute
purposeful availment for due-process purposes. See Burger King , 471 U.S. at 473 , 105 S.Ct. 2174 .
Thus, it is clear to us that had Nelson himself mailed the letters to
Schneider knowing they would reach Schneider in Ohio, there would be
"purposeful availment" to satisfy due process. See Neat , 270 F.3d at 332 ("[T]he actions of sending false information into Tennessee by phone and
fax had foreseeable effects in Tennessee and were directed at individuals
in Tennessee."); Am. Greetings Corp. v. Cohn , 839 F.2d 1164 , 1170 (6th
Cir. 1988) (holding threatening letters and phone calls to plaintiff in
Ohio satisfied due process). The issue we must decide is whether either
of two complicating facts alters this conclusion: (1) that Nelson did not
physically mail the letters himself; and (2) that Nelson contends there is
no direct evidence that Nelson knew the letters would reach Ohio.
First, the fact that Nelson did not personally mail the letters has no
impact on the due-process analysis. This not an instance where letters a
defendant drafted reached an out-of-state plaintiff by "fortuitous"
misfortune or "attenuated" circumstances. Cf. World-Wide Volkswagen , 444 U.S. at 295 , 100 S.Ct. 559 . Nelson, by his own admission, drafted the
letters at Hardesty's request knowing that Hardesty almost certainly
would then mail the letters to investors. [fn11] Given Nelson's intimate
involvement [*703] in the creation of the letters and his knowledge of their intended
purpose, the fact that Hardesty rather than Nelson mailed the letters does
not make Nelson's actions any less purposefully directed at the recipient
investors. See Koch v. Local 438, UAW , 54 Fed.Appx. 807 , 811-12 (6th
Cir. 2002) (unpublished) (finding personal jurisdiction lacking over one
defendant where "her lack of leadership in [the relevant] events [made]
her actions less purposefully directed at the plaintiff' but finding
personal jurisdiction [**9] over the defendant who "initiated the process" by
directing someone to write the defamatory letter and participated in the
decision to then send that letter). By drafting and providing Hardesty
with the letters for distribution, Nelson was the key actor in directing
the harm inflicted on the recipients. See id .; Air Prods. & Controls, Inc. v. Safetech Int'l, Inc. , 503 F.3d 544 , 552 (6th Cir. 2007)
(discussing importance of which party initiated contacts to purposeful
availment analysis).
Second, despite Nelson's contentions to the contrary, there is
sufficient evidence that Nelson knew, or at least should have known, that
the letters were bound for an investor in Ohio. In the first "To Whom It
May Concern" letter, Nelson wrote that "we assembled a package that
included audited financials on Provincial Insurance, Ltd." that "included
the name, address, and contact information for each insured or medical
practice" to be sent to the Bank of Butterfield in aid of recovery of the
funds. R. 30 (Ex. C, Letter dated Sept. 29, 2003 at 2). This is a clear
statement by Nelson that he had personal knowledge of the names and
addresses of the investors, or at least access to that information at his
fingertips. Nelson cannot now renege on this representation for the
purpose of avoiding jurisdiction in Ohio. Under the
preponderance-of-the-evidence standard, this admission is sufficient to
establish that Nelson knew where the various investors were located.
Accordingly, Schneider has demonstrated that Nelson purposefully availed
himself of the benefits and burdens of the State of Ohio satisfying the
first prong of the due-process analysis under the
preponderance-of-the-evidence standard.
b. Arising From
The second requirement is that the plaintiffs cause of action arise
from the defendant's contacts with the state. This requirement is subject
to a "lenient standard," and we are without doubt that Schneider's claims
against Nelson satisfy it. See Bird , 289 F.3d at 875 . As previously
explained, the dispute at issue un-equivocally "arises from" the two
letters that Nelson wrote and Schneider received. Those letters, that
Schneider received, read, and relied upon in Ohio, form the basis for
Schneider's allegations that Nelson furthered the fraud perpetrated
against Schneider. Accordingly, the second prong of the analysis is met.
c. Substantial Connection
The third requirement is that the defendant have a sufficiently
substantial connection to the forum such that the exercise of
jurisdiction is not unreasonable. "[W]here, as here, the first two
[criteria] are met, `an inference of reasonableness arises' and `only the
unusual case will not meet [the substantial connection] [criterion].'" Air Prods. & Controls, Inc. , 503 F.3d at 554 (quoting Theunissen v. Matthews , 935 F.2d 1454 , 1461 (6th Cir. 1991)). "In determining whether
the exercise of jurisdiction is reasonable, the court should consider,
among others, the following factors: (1) the burden on the defendant; (2)
the interest of the forum state; (3) the plaintiffs interest in obtaining
relief; and (4) other states' interest in securing the [*704] most efficient resolution of the policy." Id. at 554-55 .
While [**10] defending this matter in Ohio imposes a burden on Nelson, we
cannot conclude that this burden creates an "unusual case" where the
"inference of reasonableness" should be abandoned. See Youn v. Track, Inc. , 324 F.3d 409 , 420 (6th Cir. 2003). Moreover, Ohio has an interest
in ensuring that its residents have adequate recourse for harms inflicted
by nonresidents, and requiring Schneider to litigate this dispute in Utah
would impose a substantial burden on him. Cf. Nationwide Mut. Ins. Co. v. Tryg Int'l Ins. Co. , 91 F.3d 790 , 797 (6th Cir. 1996) (noting concern
not implicated where plaintiff is large corporation that "can easily
travel to the defendant's home jurisdiction to seek redress"). "Because
there is an inference of reasonableness when the first two Southern
Machine prongs are satisfied, and because there are no considerations put
forward by [Nelson] to overcome or contradict that inference, the
exercise of jurisdiction is reasonable under the circumstances of this
case." Air Prods. & Controls, Inc. , 503 F.3d at 555 .
Accordingly, the exercise of personal jurisdiction over Nelson
in Ohio comports with due process.
III. CONCLUSION
Because we conclude that the exercise of jurisdiction both comports
with Ohio's long-arm statute and due process, we REVERSE the judgment of
the district court and REMAND for further proceedings consistent with
this opinion.
[fn1] Provincial Insurance is a British Virgin Islands company licensed
to conduct business in the United States. R. 30 (Ex. C, Letter dated
Sept. 29, 2003 at 1).
[fn2] Vavasseur's manager, Terry Dowdell, pleaded guilty to federal
charges related to the scheme.
[fn3] Nelson argues that Schneider has not presented any evidence
indicating that he did indeed send this information to Hardesty.
[fn4] Neither Schneider nor Nelson requested that the district court hold
an evidentiary hearing.
[fn5] Nelson also argues that Schneider should be estopped from arguing
for the application of the prima facie standard in light of
representations made to the district court when requesting discovery.
This argument is without merit because Schneider's position is not
clearly inconsistent with that previously taken before the district
court. See Lorillard Tobacco Co. v. Chester, Willcox & Saxbe , 546 F.3d 752 , 757 (6th Cir. 2008). In requesting leave to conduct limited
discovery, Schneider pointed out that if the district court did not allow
discovery, the prima facie standard would apply. This statement is not
inconsistent with the position that after limited discovery, but in the
absence of an evidentiary hearing, the prima facie standard still
applies.
[fn6] Other courts have not read Dean as creating such an exception, but
have instead interpreted it as confirming that the
preponderance-of-the-evidence standard never applies in the absence of an
evidentiary hearing. See, e.g., Bradford Co. v. Afco Mfg. , 560 F.Supp.2d 612 , 618-19 (S.D.Ohio 2008) ("[T]he Sixth Circuit left
no doubt in Dean v. Motel 6 Operating L.P. that the preponderance of
evidence standard does not apply where no evidentiary hearing has been
held.").
[fn7] In fact, in most instances, this Circuit has applied the prima
facie standard in the absence of an evidentiary hearing without even
considering the exception's possible application. See, e.g., Bridgeport Music, Inc. v. Still N the Water Publ'g, ill F.3d 472 , 476-78 (6th Cir.
2003) (applying prima facie standard where there was limited discovery
but no evidentiary hearing); Smith v. Home Depot USA, Inc. , 294 Fed.Appx. 186 , 188-89 (6th Cir. 2008) (unpublished) (same). The
closest this Circuit has come to addressing the issue was in Chrysler Corporation v. Uptown Motorcars-Hartford, Inc. , No. 98-1097 , [ 173 F.3D 854 ], 1999 WL 196558
(6th Cir. Apr. 1, 1999) (unpublished opinion). There a panel held the
prima facie standard should apply in the absence of an evidentiary hearing
where it was unclear whether all discovery desired was granted. Id.
at*3 .
[fn8] In his SEC deposition, Nelson testified that he could not answer
the question as to whether he was aware of the identities of the
investors because of attorney-client privilege. See R. 30 (Ex. B, Nelson
Dep. at 26:6-9). During Nelson's deposition in this case, Nelson
clarified that he was referring to his attorney-client relationship with
Hardesty and that he did not have an attorney-client relationship with
Schneider. Id. at 32:23-33:3.
[fn9] Such findings are consistent with Ohio state-court decisions. See, e.g., Kauffman Racing Equip., L.L.C. v. Roberts , 126 Ohio St.3d 81 , 930 N.E.2d 784 , 792 (2010) ("When defamatory statements regarding an Ohio
plaintiff are made outside the state yet with the purpose of causing
injury to the Ohio resident and there is a reasonable expectation that
the purposefully inflicted injury will occur in Ohio, the requirements of R.C. 2307.382(A)(6) are satisfied."); Herbruck v. LaJolla Capital , No. 19586 , 2000 WL 1420282 , at *3 (Ohio App. Sept. 27, 2000) ("A fair reading
of the complaint and documentary materials shows that Gallison committed
tortious acts (alleged as conversion, fraud, and civil conspiracy)
outside Ohio, while knowing full well that the stock involved was of an
Ohio corporation.").
[fn10] Moreover, the fact that Schneider actually followed the
instructions given to him in the letters, by mailing the requested
information to Hardesty as instructed, provides tangible corroboration of
Schneider's reliance.
[fn11] In fact, Nelson has presented no alternative explanation as to why
Hardesty would have requested that Nelson draft the letters in the first
place.
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | F.3d
** | BL

