[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit.
UNITED STATES of America, Plaintiff-Appellee, v. Joseph E. KLUG,
Defendant-Appellant.
No. 11-1339.
Argued October 4, 2011.
Decided February 29, 2012.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the
Southern District of Illinois, Michael J. Reagan, J.
Suzanne M. Garrison (argued), Attorney, Office of the
United States Attorney, Fairview Heights, IL, for
Plaintiff-Appellee.
Michael A. Gross (argued), Attorney, St. Louis, MO, for
Defendant-Appellant.
Before CUDAHY, FLAUM, and TINDER, Circuit Judges.
TINDER, Circuit Judge.
Joseph E. Klug pleaded guilty to producing and possessing
child pornography. See 18 U.S.C. §§ 2251 (a), 2252 (a)(4)(B). After calculating an imprisonment range of life,
the district court sentenced Klug to a total of 384 months. On
appeal, Klug argues that his prison sentence is unreasonably
long. We affirm the judgment.
Klug came to the attention of law enforcement after an FBI
agent, using a peer-to-peer network, discovered that an
Internet address assigned to Klug was being used to share child
pornography. After agents learned that Klug held a leadership
position in the Royal Rangers, a children's youth ministry,
they executed a search warrant at his residence. Agents
interviewed Klug, and he confessed to having a large collection
of child pornography. He also admitted to surreptitiously
filming boys he supervised on Royal Rangers camping trips or
encountered in the locker room of his health club. During
camping trips Klug had hidden a camera in his backpack to film
boys showering. On one occasion, he used a hidden camera to
film a boy changing clothes while in a tent; this filming also
happened to record the boy masturbating. And after one camping
trip he brought a boy back to his house and then secretly
filmed him using the restroom. Klug cropped the facial features
of his subjects, who ranged from 9 to 14, before trading those
pornographic images for more child pornography. He denied
molesting any children, and the boys he secretly filmed on the
Royal Rangers trips, who were interviewed during the
investigation, did not indicate that they perceived Klug to
have touched them in inappropriate ways. Klug conceded in his
FBI interview, however, that he had fantasized about the
children, wishing to perform oral sex on them, and that he went
out of his way to be physically close with them, brushing up
against them, squeezing shoulders and patting backs.
When examining Klug's computers and related equipment, agents
uncovered 59,000 still images of child pornography and 12,000
videos of child pornography (the latter being equivalent for
guidelines purposes to 900,000 still images, see U.S.S.G. § 2G2.2 cmt. n. 4(B)(ii)). Those images include
depictions of sexual abuse, bestiality, and infants.
Authorities also uncovered chat logs of graphic exchanges
between Klug and other persons interested in child pornography.
The chats revealed Klug's fantasies about molesting children,
as well as solicitations for videos from [*799] private collections and advice from Klug on how to sexually
violate children.
The [**2] district court calculated an imprisonment range of life
based on Klug's total offense level of 43 and criminal history
category of I. Before the court imposed sentence, the
government presented testimony from the FBI agent who
investigated and interviewed Klug. The government also
submitted statements from children depicted in Klug's
collection of child pornography. The parents of one of the boys
filmed by Klug submitted separate written statements describing
how Klug's actions left them unwilling to entrust their son
with male chaperones. The boy's mother explained that her son
does not know he was taped but she experiences significant
anxiety from knowing that one day he will find out. Klug
testified, too, and called his parents and his wife, as well as
several friends, as character witnesses. Klug apologized to the
court, his victims, and his family for his "selfish" and
destructive behavior, and he told the court that he was seeking
counseling for his addiction to child pornography.
In explaining the prison sentence, the district judge began by
noting that he credited all of the testimony, including Klug's
character witnesses. The judge balanced Klug's spotless
criminal history against his total offense level, the highest
listed in the guidelines. The judge first addressed Klug's
conviction for producing child pornography, highlighting that
Klug had abused his position of trust by filming boys he
supervised and then distributing their images on the Internet.
The judge pointed to a victim impact statement he had seen
repeatedly in child-pornography cases and deemed particularly
compelling: The victim depicted in the "Vicki series," which
Klug possessed, explains in her victim impact statement that
her "whole world came crashing down" when she discovered that
the videos that her father made while raping her were
circulating on the Internet. Echoing the concerns of the mother
of one of the boys Klug had filmed, the judge explained that,
although the boys were not yet aware that images of them were
circulating, he found it troubling that "[t]here will come a
time when they recognize that out of their control is an image
of their body, whether their face is visible or not, that is
being bought and sold and traded like a chattel." The judge
then moved on to Klug's conviction for possession, pointing out
that his collection of child pornography was the largest the
judge ever had encountered. The judge expressed concern that
Klug's massive collection had not satiated his addiction and
instead, he continued to try to increase the collection, which
prompted the judge to question whether physical abuse would
have been Klug's next step.
The judge highlighted Klug's chat logs, which he found
particularly troubling. Klug had created an online fantasy life
in which he has at least one son, and in one of those chats
introduced at sentencing, he recounts performing oral sex on
the boy "so that he could learn what it was like" and, in
another incident, sexually molesting the boy and the boy's
friend during a trip to Toronto. [**3] The chats also include Klug
coaching a chat partner about grooming children for sex,
achieving penetration, and concealing the abuse. Klug
instructed that chat partner to warn young victims not to tell
anyone what had happened because disclosure would embarrass
them. In addition, Klug asked a trading partner to create child
pornography for him.
The district court could have sentenced Klug to a total of 40
years (30 years for production and a consecutive 10 years for
possession). See 18 U.S.C. §§ 2251 (e), 2252 (b)(2).
But the statutory maximum, the judge reasoned, was greater than
necessary [*800] given Klug's employment history and supportive spouse, and
the absence of any history of sexual abuse or drug abuse. The
judge settled on a total of 384 months.
On appeal Klug contends that 384 months in prison is too harsh.
An overall sentence of that magnitude, Klug reasons, should be
reserved for producers of "hard-core pornography that depicts
children being raped by adults or engaged in explicit sexual
activity with other children." His videos, Klug maintains, are
"categorically different" because they only depict "children
dressing and undressing" and, "in one incident not alleged to
have been planned, masturbating." Klug does not argue that the
sentencing court committed any procedural error.
Because Klug's overall prison sentence is below the guidelines
range, we apply a presumption of reasonableness. See Rita v. United States , 551 U.S. 338 , 347-56 , 127 S.Ct. 2456 , 168 L.Ed.2d 203 (2007); United States v. Tanner , 628 F.3d 890 , 908 (7th Cir. 2010) (noting that guidelines range of
life imprisonment effectively renders "any prison sentence
presumptively reasonable on appeal"); United States v. Noel , 581 F.3d 490 , 500 (7th Cir. 2009) (concluding that
80-year sentence for producing and possessing child pornography
was presumptively reasonable given guidelines range of life in
prison). Klug does not suggest that the district court failed
to consider the information pertinent to the factors in 18 U.S.C. § 3553 (a), nor does he point to any factors that
would overcome the presumption we apply.
Instead, Klug's stance seems to be that no harm came to the
children he filmed because there was no sexual contact, and
thus, he reasons, his prison sentence is excessive. But Klug's
definition of harm is far too narrow. As the district court
observed, Klug circulated his films on the Internet and caused
distinct and serious harm to his victims by giving their images
a permanent existence and the potential for endless
replication, all of which is beyond the control of the victims.
And even though the facial features in the images were cropped
before they were traded by Klug, facial features are not the
only basis that can be used to identify or recognize a person
depicted in an image. The Supreme Court, concluding that
governments have the greatest latitude to regulate sexually
explicit images when children are depicted, observed that child
pornography is pernicious precisely because the harm it
produces is not limited to the sexual abuse it depicts.
"Because the child's actions are reduced to a recording," the
Court reasoned, "the pornography may haunt him in future years,
long after [**4] the original misdeed took place." New York v. Ferber , 458 U.S. 747 , 760 n. 10, 102 S.Ct. 3348 , 73 L.Ed.2d 1113 (1982); see also Osborne v. Ohio , 495 U.S. 103 , 111 , 110 S.Ct. 1691 , 109 L.Ed.2d 98 (1990) (observing
that "pornography's continued existence causes the child
victims continuing harm by haunting the children in years to
come"). The Court emphasized this point in Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition , observing that "as a permanent record of
a child's abuse, the continued circulation itself would harm
the child who had participated." 535 U.S. 234 , 250 , 122 S.Ct. 1389 , 152 L.Ed.2d 403 (2002). As with defamatory statements,
the Court explained, every publication of the image "would
cause new injury to the child's reputation and emotional
well-being." Id . Indeed, in the years since Ferber was decided, federal courts have focused on the
enduring harm to the child victims in concluding that child
pornography offenses warrant harsh sentences. See United States v. Blinkinsop , 606 F.3d 1110 , 1118 (9th Cir. 2010)
(observing that laws punishing receipt and possession of child
pornography create incentive to destroy [*801] materials and thus alleviate the continuing harm inflicted
on child victims whose "images have been preserved in a
permanent medium"); United States v. Daniels , 541 F.3d 915 , 924 (9th Cir. 2008); United States v. Goff , 501 F.3d 250 , 259 (3d Cir. 2007); United States v. Gross , 437 F.3d 691 , 693 (7th Cir. 2006); see also Child
Pornography Prevention Act of 1996, Pub.L. No. 104-208 , § 121 , 110 Stat. 3009 , 3009-26 (1996) (setting out Congressional
finding that "the creation or distribution of child pornography
which includes an image of a recognizable minor invades the
child's privacy and reputational interests, since images that
are created showing a child's face or other identifiable
feature on a body engaging in sexually explicit conduct can
haunt the minor for years to come").
Moreover, this court has upheld lengthy sentences for
defendants involved in producing child pornography, even where
the victims were not molested in the process. In Noel an 80-year sentence was affirmed under nearly identical
circumstances. 581 F.3d at 500 . The defendant in Noel babysat the young son of his stepbrother but abused his
position of trust by taking nude photos of the child while he
slept. Id. at 493 . He was convicted of multiple counts
of producing child pornography based on those photographs and
was also convicted of possessing those images and other images
of child pornography from different sources. Id . A
total offense level of 48 and criminal history category of I
yielded a guidelines range of life in prison, id.
at 495 , and Noel argued that 80 years was unreasonable. Id. at 500 . Despite the absence of sexual abuse, the
presumption of reasonableness allowed this court to "quickly
dismiss Noel's argument" that his sentence was too long. Id .
Similarly, in United States v. Newsom , we upheld a
total sentence of 324 months' imprisonment for a defendant
convicted of crimes related to child pornography, including a
count of production based on surreptitious films of his own
daughter and a former girlfriend's daughter. 428 F.3d 685 , 689-90 (7th Cir. 2005). The period of imprisonment was within
the guidelines range and included the statutory maximum for the
production count (240 months at that time). Id.
at 686 . The defendant argued that the amount of prison time was
excessive because, in his view, the term " [**5] was far longer than
sentences imposed on other defendants whose crimes were worse
than his own." 428 F.3d at 689 . We began by emphasizing that
" § 3553(a) does not ban all disparities; its concern is
only with unwarranted disparities." Id . We then
concluded that the defendant's comparisons to "other defendants
whose crimes were worse than his own" were not enough to
overcome the presumption of reasonableness. Id .
Although Klug does not use the term "marginal deterrence," see United States v. Beier , 490 F.3d 572 , 575 (7th
Cir. 2007), he essentially contends that others will not be
deterred from producing "hard-core" child pornography because
his own sentence would not have been higher even if he had
produced child pornography by sexually abusing the boys in his
care. But we have explicitly rejected the utility of marginal
deterrence in cases involving the production of child
pornography. See United States v. Maulding , 627 F.3d 285 , 288 (7th Cir. 2010); Beier , 490 F.3d at 575 ; Newsom , 428 F.3d at 689-90 . We explained in Beier that marginal deterrence does not mandate that
"crimes of different gravity must never be punished
the same. It is that punishing two crimes of different gravity
the same is unsound when to do so would encourage additional
crimes." Beier , 490 F.3d at 575 . The theory of
marginal deterrence does not aid defendants like Klug who
produce child pornography because "child pornographers who
molest the [*802] children whom they photograph can be punished separately
for molestation." Id . Thus, even though the young
victims in this case were not physically molested in the
process of the production of the child pornography, we do not
conclude that the sentence imposed was unreasonable in light of
all of the evidence presented to and properly considered by the
district court.
Because Klug's reasonableness challenge is without merit, we
AFFIRM the judgment.
CUDAHY, concurring.
I join the majority opinion because I agree that the
sentence is within the guidelines and therefore presumptively
reasonable and, particularly in the case of this multifaceted
crime, much is left to the discretion of the sentencing judge
after consulting 18 U.S.C. § 3553 . Admittedly, however,
this leaves many questions unanswered and many possible
questions unasked. These questions relate, among other things,
to what are the primary evils sought to be reached by the
prosecution of various strands of child pornography, what are
the relationships, if any, between many different sorts of
violations and what are the prospects for repeat offenses by
those who have been severely punished for these offenses. It
may be a matter of consequence that the district court itself
at the time of sentencing announced that the crime in question
was one it did not understand. I am sure it was not alone in
this sentiment.
The most well-known and authoritatively established evil of
child pornography production is the overt exploitation of
children as performers in pornographic depictions. The role of
performers as victims is illustrated by the distinction drawn
by the Supreme Court between real human performers and virtual
images. See Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition , 535 U.S. 234 , 240 , 249 , 122 S.Ct. 1389 , 152 L.Ed.2d 403 (2002)
(noting [**6] that children are "exploited by the production process"
and that child pornography is "a permanent record of a child's
abuse"). The present case presents the producer not as a
coercive manipulator of children but as a sort of "peeping Tom"
catching children at intimate moments and exposing them for the
world to see. What difference, if any, do these circumstances
make?
This brings us to a second violation, uncharged but evident
here — distribution of pornographic images. Here, one of
the key evils to be reached by prosecution is the exposure of
pictured children to wide-spread humiliation. The district
court in its sentencing discussion emphasized this aspect of
things by citing the profound effect on it of the "Vicki video"
victim impact statement by the subject of that video who was
deeply distressed by the broad circulation of identifiable
images of her being raped by her father. However, the present
video differs in that the victims' identities have been
excised. How does this weigh on the scales? Of course, a
perhaps more obvious factor in the analysis is the one argued
most strenuously by the defendant: namely that the images
portrayed on his videos of showering, disrobing and even
masturbating are relatively mild stuff compared with forcible
rape.
The other violation charged here involves possession of
pornographic images in quantities apparently rarely equaled. As
explicated in Ashcroft , the primary evil here is the
creation of a market for the production of images involving the
evils already briefly described. Since possession carries a
maximum sentence of ten years, it does not figure as
significantly in sentencing controversy. But it, as well as
other child pornography offenses, leads to the issue that has
involved almost unlimited [*803] speculation but few conclusions: does violation of the
child pornography statutes predict actual physical child abuse,
which most analysts regard as the most dangerous evil of this
complex. In the present case, there was no evidence that the
defendant had committed physical child abuse and, although the
district court raised the issue whether the pornography
offenses pointed in that direction, left the question as
undemonstrated or at least unproven. The district court thus
followed in the wake of numerous opinions in many circuits that
have speculated, called for more research or merely assumed
what seemed likely conclusions. Several courts of appeals have
begun to more aggressively review these cases for substantive
reasonableness. See, e.g., United States v. Apodaca , 641 F.3d 1077 (9th Cir. 2011); United States v. Dorvee , 616 F.3d 174 (2d Cir. 2010); see also United States v. Grober , 624 F.3d 592 , 603-10 (3d Cir. 2010).
These are only some of the issues presented here, and generally
in these child pornography cases about which the guidelines and
other sources of authority provide little guidance and about
which there is almost inevitable speculation but facts or solid
conclusions are hard to come by. Under these circumstances
uniformity cannot be achieved and justice is elusive. All the
responsible contributors [**7] to the sentencing process need to
focus on a better provision of reasonable standards as to the
issues I have mentioned and many others presented by these
multifarious crimes.
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | F.3d
** | BL

