[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, First Circuit.
VICOR CORPORATION, Plaintiff, Appellee/Cross-Appellant, v. VIGILANT
INSURANCE COMPANY; Federal Insurance Company; Continental Casualty
Company, Defendants, Appellants/Cross-Appellees.
Nos. 09-1470, 09-1494, 09-1589.
Heard February 2, 2010.
Decided March 16, 2012.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the
District of Massachusetts, William G. Young, J.
[EDITORS' NOTE:  THIS PAGE CONTAINS HEADNOTES. HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN
OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.]
[EDITORS' NOTE:  THIS PAGE CONTAINS HEADNOTES. HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN
OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.]
[EDITORS' NOTE:  THIS PAGE CONTAINS HEADNOTES. HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN
OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.] [*5]
Bruce E. Falby, with whom Bruce S. Barnett and DLA Piper
LLP were on brief, for appellants, Vigilant Insurance Company
& Federal Insurance Company.
Matthew J. Lodge, with whom Christopher R. Carroll and Carroll
McNulty & Kull LLC were on brief, for appellant,
Continental Casualty Company.
Kevin J. O'Connor, with whom Peter C. Netburn, Matthew C.
Kalin, and Hermes, Netburn, O'Connor & Spearing, P.C. were
on brief for appellee.
Before LIPEZ, Circuit Judge, SOUTER, [fn*] Associate
Justice, and HOWARD, Circuit Judge.
[fn*] The Hon. David H. Souter, Associate Justice (Ret.) of the
Supreme Court of the United States, sitting by
designation.
HOWARD, Circuit Judge.
This insurance coverage dispute concerning the scope of a
"loss of use" provision stems from wireless communication
network outages in 2003. The outages were traced to the failure
of a component part, known as a power converter, manufactured
by appellee/cross-appellant Vicor Corporation and sold to
Ericsson Wireless Communications, which incorporated the power
converter into radio base stations ("RBS") critical to
Ericsson's customers' wireless networks. In May 2004, as a
result of the network failures, Ericsson sued Vicor in
California state court. They settled this suit ("the Ericsson
litigation") in 2007 for $50 million. Appellant/crossappellees
Vigilant Insurance Company and Federal Insurance Company, two
of Vicor's liability insurers, paid $13 million of the
settlement. Vicor contributed the remaining $37 million.
Vicor subsequently initiated this litigation, seeking
indemnification from its insurers for the $37 million of its
own funds that it paid to Ericsson. In addition to Federal and
Vigilant, Vicor also sued an excess carrier,
appellant/cross-appellee Continental Casualty Company
(collectively "the insurers"). After eight days of trial, a
jury awarded Vicor $17.3 million. The district court granted
the insurers partial post-trial relief, reducing the verdict by
$4 million and entering judgment for Vicor in the amount of
$13.3 million plus interest. All parties filed timely appeals
and cross-appeals raising multiple issues. For the reasons that
follow, we believe that the judgment cannot withstand appellate
scrutiny, and we remand the case.
I. Background Facts [fn1]
A. Equipment and Failure
Vicor is a manufacturer of electronic equipment. The Vicor
power converters at issue in this litigation break down [**2] input
power supplies into power levels needed by various other
component parts. Ericsson's [*6] business includes the design, manufacture and sale of
electronic equipment, including radio base stations, which are
used to set up and operate cellular telephone towers and
networks. Ericsson purchased Vicor power converters for use in
Ericsson RBSs, which Ericsson sold to wireless communication
providers worldwide. These providers included Cricket
Communications, which operated in North America, and China
Unicom ("CU") which operated in several Chinese provinces.
Trial testimony suggested that power converters that Vicor had
sold to Ericsson began failing in October 2002 and that Vicor
became aware in May 2003 that some of these failures were
related to a manufacturing change in a component computer chip.
In October 2003, severe outages occurred in the Cricket
network. [fn2] Later in 2003, similar problems arose in CU's
network in China.
B. Ericsson's Payments
As a result of the network outages triggered by the RBS
failures, Ericsson provided compensation to both Cricket and
CU. The record reflects that Ericsson paid approximately $9.3
million to Cricket pursuant to a settlement agreement.
Additionally, Ericsson spent $5 to $6 million to repair the
Vicor products purchased by CU and provided CU with $3.3
million in free equipment.
C. The Ericsson Lawsuit
In May 2004, Ericsson sued Vicor on several theories of
liability, including breach of contract, breach of warranty,
negligence, unfair competition, misrepresentation and fraud. In
a February 7, 2007 memo, Vicor's defense counsel summarized
Ericsson's damage claim, as set forth in its interrogatory
answers. The claim totaled approximately $1.1 billion,
including the following: $1 billion in lost profits; $33
million to retrofit and replace Vicor power converters
worldwide; $10 million of inventory provided to Cricket; $9.5
million settlement paid to Cricket; $7.5 million paid to CU;
$3.3 million of inventory provided to CU; $5 million in costs
for engineers and technicians to address failures and retrofit
components; $2-3 million to diagnose defects and redesign RBS
components to eliminate the Vicor product.
Vicor and Ericsson successfully resolved their differences
through mediation, settling the Ericsson litigation for $50
million. Vigilant and Federal contributed almost $13 million
towards the settlement under two different types of policies.
Vicor supplied the remaining funds.
D. Vicor's Lawsuit
After settling with Ericsson, Vicor filed this action against
the insurers in Massachusetts federal district court, seeking
reimbursement of the $37 million it had paid to Ericsson. Vicor
sought a declaratory judgment that its payments were covered
losses under the policies, as well as seeking damages for
breach of contract.
II. The Insurance Policies
A. Vigilant and Federal
As relevant to this litigation, Vigilant issued two primary
general liability policies to Vicor, spanning the terms October
1, 2002 to October 1, 2003, and October 1, 2003 to October 1,
2004. Each policy [**3] was subject to general liability limits of $1
million per occurrence and $2 million aggregate. In addition to
the general liability coverage, the Vigilant policies insured
against Information and Network Technology Errors or Omissions
("E & O coverage"), [*7] providing liability coverage for "financial injury" caused
by a "wrongful act," as defined by the policy. The E & O
coverage was subject to a $10 million policy limit.
Federal issued two excess and umbrella general liability
policies covering the same policy periods. The 2002-2003 policy
contained a general liability limit of $20 million per
occurrence and in the aggregate. The 2003-2004 policy contained
a $12 million limit per occurrence and in the aggregate.
B. Continental
Continental issued an excess liability policy with an $8
million limit to Vicor covering October 1, 2003 to October 1,
2004. The Continental policy is excess to the $13 million
dollars in coverage provided by the Vigilant and Federal
policies covering the same time period. As an excess policy,
the Continental policy only provides coverage if a covered loss
during the policy period exceeds the combined Vigilant-Federal
limit.
C. Policy Provisions
The Federal and Continental policies incorporate by reference
many of the relevant policy provisions contained in the
Vigilant policy, which provides, in relevant part:
Subject to all the terms and conditions of this
  insurance, we will pay damages that the insured
  becomes legally obligated to pay by reason of
  liability:
• imposed by law . . .
for bodily injury or property damage caused by an
  occurrence to which this coverage applies.
This coverage applies only to such bodily injury or
  property damage that occurs during the policy period.
  . . .
. . . . .
Occurrence means an accident, including continuous or
  repeated exposure to substantially the same general
  harmful conditions.
Property damage means:
• physical injury to tangible property, including
  resulting loss of use of that property . . .
• loss of use of tangible property that is not
  physically injured. All such loss of use shall be
  deemed to occur at the time of the occurrence that
  caused it.
III. Trial
The crux of the dispute in this case concerns the policy
language addressing coverage for "loss of use of property that
is not physically injured." Of the money contributed by
Vigilant and Federal to the Ericsson settlement, $3.14 million
was considered to be for "physical injury to tangible
property." [fn3] Vicor claimed at trial that the insurers owed
it the remaining $37 million because Vicor had paid that sum to
Ericsson as a result of such `'loss of use" damages. This total
consisted of: 1) cash settlements of $7.5 million to CU; 2) free
equipment to CU worth at least $6.6 million; 3) cash
settlements to Cricket of $9.5 million; 4) free equipment to
Cricket worth at least $10.1 million; and 5) emergency response
costs of at least $6 million related to restoring failed
customer networks.
The insurers' position is that repair costs, including
emergency response costs, do not constitute loss of use
damages. The issue came to a head during arguments [**4] over jury
instructions. The insurers [*8] wanted loss of use damages to be defined to include "a
recognized measure of loss of use, such as the rental value of
substitute property, lost profits, lost sales, or a comparable,
quantifiable measure representing extra costs incurred or the
value of losing the benefit of using that property for the time
reasonably necessary to repair and replace it."
The district court did not completely accept the insurers'
argument. While a preliminary instruction noted that the case
did not involve a claim for "actual repairs" to return damaged
equipment back to its original condition, the trial judge
informed counsel at the close of evidence of his view that
"emergency steps to restore the network . . . seem to be the
mirror image of loss of use. They are the steps to get the
network up and running. . . . Beyond that, repairs are not
covered."
Over the insurers' objections, [fn4] the district court ruled
that three of Vicor's specific damage claims could go to the
jury under the loss of use rubric:
• emergency repair costs in the amount of $5 to
  $6 million;
• the $9.5 million settlement between Cricket and
  Ericsson;
• $3.3 million in the delivery of emergency
  equipment to China Unicom.
Consistent with this ruling, the court instructed the jury, in
relevant part, as follows on the loss of use issue:
And the only damages, the only damages that Vicor can
  recover in this case are loss-of-use damages. And it
  appears undisputed that there was this settlement with
  Ericsson for $50 million. The insurance company
  — not Casualty, the insurance companies, the
  Chubb companies, they kicked in 13, whatever it was,
  but something that didn't become clear to me until
  yesterday was none of that was for loss of use.
. . . . .
In car insurance, if you have loss-of-use damages and
  you get into an accident and your car's towed away,
  the loss-of-use damages cover renting another car so
  you can get on the road and have the benefit of a car
  and go to work and where you want to go with your car.
  They do not cover repairing your car. So we have to
  take that — and there's lots of cases on it,
  what judges look at. Lawyers all know them. Now we
  have to take that language and that concept and we
  have to fit it to this case. And here's how we're
  going to do that.
In this case the loss of use is the loss of use of
  that consumer person out there in Seattle or the
  provinces of China, I [*9] won't just confine it to Seattle, wherever Cricket towers
  were up who goes to make a call and they can't make a call.
  Or goes, has a call, and it goes down because that 120-degree
  sector is out because the power converter on that sector on
  that tower failed. That's a loss of use.
And, you know, the lawyers said no one — we
  haven't got any evidence here that these people, their
  call was dropped so they sued. But that's not the
  point. The point is that Cricket and China Unicom, who
  are in the business of running these networks and
  advertise, one imagines, that their network is up and
  running and is a good network, when that loss of use
  occurs they have a problem.
So when they expend money, sort of in the nature
  — I won't say in the nature. Let me get right to
  it. When they take emergency [**5] response costs to bring
  their network back online, Cricket, China Unicom are
  entitled to come back against Ericsson, and Ericsson
  is entitled to come back against Vicor once it's
  understood that it's Vicor's product that has failed
  and caused this. Those are the loss-of-use damages
  that we're talking about; the emergency response costs
  to get the system up and running. Now, those aren't
  rental costs, but we're not talking about rental costs
  in this type of situation. They are those reasonably
  understood emergency response costs to get the system
  up and running. Well, given the mechanics here, one of
  the things that means is repairs. You pull out a
  defective power converter and you put in another power
  converter, you've repaired it. And I told you, well,
  repairs aren't covered. Here's how you're going to
  resolve that.
You have to ask yourself what was Cricket doing, what
  did Cricket think it was doing? What was China Unicom
  doing, on the evidence? What was Ericsson doing to
  back them up? What was Vicor doing to back up
  Ericsson? These are not the monies, the settlements,
  the — I'll go through a list. These are the
  things that are taken because you've got an emergency.
  And people in good faith jump into action and spend
  money.
If Cricket jumps into action and spends money, if
  China Unicom jumps into action and spends money, if
  Ericsson spends money without regard to what their
  contract was, and Vicor, the same thing, if they jump
  into action and spend money to get the systems up and
  running, one, that's what we want responsible
  companies to do. And they're doing that, even if it
  constitutes repairs, they're doing that to get the
  system up and running. That's loss of use.
And if Cricket and China Unicom, in fact, did that and
  charged it back against Ericsson, and Ericsson, in
  fact, paid that, and then as part of the settlement
  charged it back against Vicor, then in this lawsuit
  Vicor can recover that from the insurance companies at
  least for these two years, if you find that there was
  such losses in the 2002/2003 year as well as
  2003/2004.
Well, now, let me go through a litany of what is
  covered, and since it's all been mentioned in this
  case, what's not covered. Loss-of-use damages is
  covered. And that would cover these emergency response
  costs even if they include repairs, if those were the
  emergency repairs and everyone's saying let's get the
  system up and running. That's covered. And if the
  Ericsson/Cricket settlement, if that paid Cricket for
  emergency response costs, then that's something that
  Ericsson incurred and they can charge that back
  against Vicor. But that does [*10] not include increased operating and maintenance costs and
  it doesn't include system upgrades, making it better than
  it was before.
. . . .
Ericsson claimed [fraud] against Vicor. So much of the
  settlement, the Ericsson/Vicor settlement, if it
  included money for fraud, not covered. If it included
  money for repairs other than emergency response costs,
  not covered. Retrofit, going out to cell phone towers
  where there's nothing wrong but replacing the power
  converters, not covered. Goodwill. Ericsson's loss of
  goodwill, if any there [**6] was, not covered. Loss of
  business opportunity, Ericsson's ability to get new
  customers and the like because now the Ericsson
  product in these various places has failed, not
  covered. Ericsson's lost profits, not covered.
  Ericsson sues Vicor and says, Well, wait a minute, we
  paid this much for your power converters, give us our
  money back. Not covered. Investigation costs to figure
  out what was the problem here. Not covered. Moving the
  units from the top of the pole down to the bottom of
  the pole so you could get at them easier, not covered.
  Cost of product replacement, not covered. I already
  said increased operating and maintenance costs, not
  covered. System upgrades not covered. Emergency
  response costs, covered. That's loss of use. Whether
  that's — whether that's proved by shipping
  immediately replacement parts in an emergency, whether
  it's paying as part of a settlement somebody else's,
  Cricket's emergency response costs, that is covered.
The jury returned a verdict the next day awarding Vicor $8
million in loss of use damages for the 2002-2003 policy period,
and $9.3 million for the 2003-2004 policy period. The parties
agree that this total consists of $8 million from the
Ericsson-Cricket settlement, $3.3 million in emergency
equipment provided to China Unicom, and $6 million for
emergency response costs to restore customer networks.
In addressing the insurers' post-trial motions, the court cited
certain provisions of the Ericsson-Cricket settlement agreement
as the foundation of the verdict. Those terms required Ericsson
to pay Cricket $8 million in two, $4 million dollar
installments. One of these installments was made to Cricket to
offset increased operating and maintenance expenses incurred by
Cricket.
The court then recalled its jury instruction that increased
operating and maintenance costs were specifically excluded as
loss of use damages. As a result, the district court granted
the insurers partial relief, reducing the verdict by $4
million. The court, however, rejected the insurers' claims that
the loss of use instruction erroneously included emergency
response costs, and entered judgment in favor of Vicor for
$13.3 million, plus interest.
All four parties appealed. Vicor argues that the district court
should not have disturbed the jury's $17.3 million verdict. The
insurers argue that the district court committed legal error
when it allowed the jury to include emergency repair costs as
loss of use damages. In addition, they argue that even if the
instruction was correct, the record evidence did not, in any
event, support the award. Also, the insurers argue that they
were erroneously denied access to Vicor's counsel's underlying
defense file from the Ericsson litigation. Separately,
Continental asserts that judgment should have been entered in
its favor because the verdict did not exhaust the underlying
policy limits, and thus its excess policies were not
implicated. Additionally, Vigilant and Federal argue that all
damages should have been allocated to [*11] the 2003-04 policy period, limiting their exposure and [**7] bringing Continental's policy into play. As resolution of the
loss of use issue determines the course of this appeal, we
address it first.
IV. Discussion
A. Loss of Use Damages
The insurers argue that the district court erred by including
emergency response costs within the definition of loss of use
damages. Vigilant and Federal raise the issue in the context of
claiming that the trial court incorrectly instructed the jury.
Raising the same issue, Continental further asserts that the
district court erred in denying its motion for judgment as a
matter of law. Regardless of the procedural posture in which
the issue was raised, we review the relevant district court
rulings regarding the loss of use instruction under a de novo
standard. See Latin Am. Music Co. v. Am. Soc. of Composers, Authors & Publishers , 593 F.3d 95 , 99 (1st Cir. 2010)
(claim of instructional error reviewed de novo); Butynski v. Springfield Terminal Ry. Co. , 592 F.3d 272 , 276 (1st
Cir. 2010) (denial of motion for judgment as a matter of law
reviewed de novo).
Under Massachusetts law, the interpretation of an insurance
policy is a question of law for the court. Cody v. Conn. Gen. Life Ins. Co. , 387 Mass. 142 , 439 N.E.2d 234 , 237 (1982). [fn5] Where, as here, the relevant policy provisions are
plainly expressed, those provisions must be enforced according
to their terms and interpreted in a manner consistent with what
an objectively reasonable insured would expect to be covered. City Fuel Corp. v. Nat'l Fire Ins. Co. of Hartford , 446 Mass. 638 , 846 N.E.2d 775 , 778-79 (2006). [fn6] Also, absent
Massachusetts precedent, we may seek guidance from other
courts' interpretations of standard policy provisions. Am. Home Assurance Co. v. AGM Marine Contractors, Inc. , 467 F.3d 810 , 812 (1st Cir. 2006).
As previously noted, the provision at issue here is that which
defines covered property damage to include "loss of use of
tangible property that is not physically injured." Vicor urges
an expansive interpretation based on the above language and the
policies' more general provision that the insurers are
responsible to "pay damages . . . for . . . property damage
caused by an occurrence." Focusing on a dictionary definition
of the word "for," Vicor argues that damages are covered if
they "are a result of loss of use of uninjured tangible
property. In other words, Vicor claims that it was required
only to establish a nexus between Ericsson's customers'
(Cricket and CU) loss and the claimed damages. At oral
argument, Vicor's counsel did not dispute that this formulation
essentially amounts to but-for causation.
The insurers' position is premised on the idea that loss of use
damages are subject to an implied temporal limitation that
confines coverage to damages incurred due to the inability to
use the failed equipment until it is replaced or
repaired. In other words, because repair costs represent the
cost of ending the loss of use period, such costs are
not themselves damages for loss of use.
The district court attempted to strike a middle ground,
explicitly instructing the jury that "repairs aren't covered"
except those repairs that were part of an "emergency response"
to the RBS failures, in [*12] order to "get the system up and running." While the trial
court's effort [**8] is a laudable response to a thorny question, we
conclude that it misses the mark. [fn7]
As recognized by the district court, the archetypal example of
loss of use damages comes in the context of a damaged
automobile. Simply put, the cost to rent a replacement vehicle
while the damaged vehicle is being repaired would represent
loss of use damages; the actual cost of repairs would not. See Urico v. Parnell Oil Co. , 708 F.2d 852 , 855 (1st
Cir. 1983) ( citing Antokol v. Barber , 248 Mass. 393 , 143 N.E. 350 , 352 (1924)); Collin v. Am. Empire Ins. Co. , 21 Cal.App.4th 787 , 818 , 26 Cal.Rptr.2d 391 (1994).
While the automobile analogy may be the most facile analytic
tool, it is not the exclusive one. See Atmel Corp. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. , 430 F.Supp.2d 989 , 994 (N.D.Cal. 2006) ("The Court does not hold . . . that loss of use
damages can only consist of rental value or its
equivalent."); see also Continental Cos. Co., v. Gilbane Bldg. Co. , 391 Mass. 143 , 461 N.E.2d 209 , 214 (1984)
(holding that where street was closed due to glass falling from
nearby high-rise, restaurant rendered in-accessible to public
could state claim for coverage by contractor's liability
insurer for loss of use damages).
As discussed earlier, both sides of this dispute claim reliance
on the plain language of the policy — Vicor focusing on
the term "for," and the insurers on a literal meaning of "loss
of use." In the absence of definitive Massachusetts case law,
the parties turn their attention to various California cases
for guidance. As the facts of Atmel most closely
resemble those present here, we turn to that case first. Atmel,
an electronic chip manufacturer, sold faulty computer chips to
its customer, Seagate, for use in disk drives that Seagate
later sold. 430 F.Supp.2d at 991 . The defective chips
eventually caused the Seagate drives to fail, although the
failure did not cause physical damage to the drives. Id . Seagate customers who returned drives to Seagate
were provided with new drives or refurbished drives without the
Atmel chip. Id. at 991-92 . The Atmel chip was replaced
in a significant number of drives that had not failed. Id. at 992 .
Seagate subsequently sued Atmel, with the matter being settled
by Atmel's $5.9 million payment to Seagate. Id . Discovery indicated that Seagate was seeking damages for:
repair and replacement of drives with the defective chip; costs
of shipping repaired drives to customers; the screening of
drives at customer locations for Atmel chips; employee expenses
related to investigation of the chip failure; maintenance of a
reserve fund to cover potential liability to its customers due
to drive problems; and various accommodations to Seagate
customers, including credit toward future purchases and the
free provision of new or refurbished replacement drives. Id .
Atmel sought coverage from its insurer, St. Paul, under a loss
of use provision identical to the one at issue here. Atmel
argued that because the failure of the Atmel chips caused
Seagate customers to lose use of the disk drives, Seagate's
damages were, therefore, loss of use damages. Id.
at 994 . The court rejected Atmel's argument, finding that the
damages were not for loss of use, but were instead the costs of
repairing and replacing the chips and drives. Id . Although the court agreed with Atmel's assertion that the
damages [*13] would not have [**9] occurred absent the chip failure, it
rejected the but-for analysis, stating, "Atmel's expansive
definition of `loss of use' damages includes any and all
damages related to the failure of the Atmel chips in the
Seagate drives, and does not require a nexus with Seagate's (or
its customers') inability to use the drives." Id . (emphasis in original). While rejecting St. Paul's
argument that rental cost is the only proxy for loss of use
damages, the court held that "the damages alleged by Seagate
. . . were too attenuated from a `loss of use,' and there must be
a more direct connection between the damages and the loss of
use of the property in order to establish coverage. . . ." Id. at 994-95 .
The insurers urge the same result here. For its part, Vicor
argues that Atmel's holding is limited to disclaiming
costs to repair and replace the insured's (Atmel's or Vicor's)
own product. But Atmel is not so limited. Seagate's
claimed damages explicitly included repair and replacement of
the drives themselves, and not just Atmel's chip. Atmel , 430 F.Supp.2d at 994 . Moreover, Vicor's
argument ignores Atmel's overarching requirement of a
"more direct connection" than simply but-for causation between
the damages claimed and the loss of use of the property. Id. at 995 .
Vicor advocates reliance on Anthem Electronics, Inc. v. Pacific Employers Insurance. Co. , 302 F.3d 1049 (9th
Cir. 2002), a case unsuccessfully relied upon by the insured in Atmel , which construed certain expenses as loss of use
damages but whose outcome the Atmel court
distinguished. We agree that the case is distinguishable both
from Atmel and this case in ways that do not support
Vicor's claim. In Anthem , the insured supplied
defective circuit boards to a manufacturer, KLA, which
incorporated the circuit boards into scanners it sold. Id. at 1052 . When some of the scanners failed, the
manufacturer was forced to replace them and ultimately sued
Anthem. Id . KLA identified among its damages:
depreciation of loaner scanners provided to its customers while
the defective ones were being repaired; inventory costs for
scanners made unshippable due to the defect; and lost revenue
due to customers failing to timely pay bills because of
defective scanners. Id. at 1052 .
Each of Anthem's insurers refused to defend the KLA lawsuit on
the ground that the claimed losses were not covered. Id. at 1052-53 . The Ninth Circuit reversed a grant of
summary judgment to the insurers, holding that the insurers had
a duty to defend Anthem because KLA's complaint "raise[d] the
possibility that KLA suffered loss of use of the systems into
which Anthem's circuit boards had been installed." Id.
at 1058 . "KLA's customers lost the use of tangible property
(their scanners), and as a result KLA suffered losses due to
loaner scanners and diminished receivables. KLA itself lost the
use of unshippable scanners sitting in inventory, and as a
result incurred unexpected inventory costs." Id.
at 1057 .
The Atmel court distinguished Anthem on two
points. First, Anthem was a duty-to-defend case, in
which the underlying complaint was examined only to see if a
covered loss was a possibility. Atmel , by contrast,
followed a settlement in which the insured was seeking
indemnity based on an existing [**10] factual record. Atmel , 430 F.Supp.2d at 995 ; see Anthem , 302 F.3d at 1054 ("An insurer has a very broad duty to defend under California
law."). Second, the Atmel court found that the insured
in Anthem "actually alleged damages suffered as a
result of the loss of use of the scanners . . ." Atmel , 430 F.Supp.2d at 995 .
Vicor argues that the costs for which Ericsson held Vicor
liable were similar to those sought by Anthem, and the fact
that [*14] Ericsson incurred them while making emergency repairs
— as opposed to in connection with "loaners" — is
of no moment, as they were incurred as a result of the
unavailability of the inoperable RBSs. We disagree. The common
thread between Atmel and Anthem is that
damages ascribed to loss of use in Anthem were accrued pending repair of the out-of-service scanners, while
those excluded in Atmel were for the repair
or replacement of the disk drives. In this case, the "emergency
repairs" allowed by the district court fall into the same
category as the repairs in Atmel. They are therefore
not loss of use damages. It is not enough to demonstrate, as
Vicor attempts to do, that there was a "loss of use" of certain
property (the power converters or the wireless networks) and
that Vicor subsequently paid damages. The claimed damages must
be tied to the actual period during which the use of the
non-physically injured property was lost and to the loss of use
itself. See Urico , 708 F.2d at 855 (in context of
damaged vehicle, loss of use damages compensates plaintiff for
"finite period in which the vehicle is simply unavailable for
use").
A third California case strengthens the insurers' position. In F & H Construction v. ITT Hartford Insurance Company of the Midwest , 118 Cal.App.4th 364 , 12 Cal. Rptr.3d 896 (2004), the insured, a subcontractor, installed steel pile caps
of inadequate strength in a building. Id. at 367 , 12 Cal.Rptr.3d 896 . The contractor later remedied the problem by
welding additional support to the caps and sued the
subcontractor's insurer for the costs related to the
modification. Id . The court agreed with the insurer
that the additional costs did not constitute loss of use
damages, noting that the contractor was not seeking damages for
"rental value (or its equivalent)" and was not claiming damages
"for the loss of use of the [facility under construction]
during the time period modifications were made to the caps." Id. at 377 , 12 Cal.Rptr.3d 896 . "[T]he only costs
claimed by F & H are the costs for repairing and modifying
the defective caps and for loss of the early completion bonus.
Those costs are unrelated to rental value." Id.
As particularly relevant here, the court concluded, "[a]
contrary conclusion would allow contractors and developers to
obtain liability insurance for inferior or defective
workmanship, a risk not covered by commercial liability
insurance." Id. (citations omitted). This view is
consistent with that of Massachusetts's highest court, that
"the goal of [liability insurance] is to protect the insured
from claims of injury or damage to others, but not to insure
against economic loss sustained by the insured due to repairing
or replacing its own defective work or products. . . ." Commerce Ins. Co. v. Betty Caplette Builders, Inc. , 420 Mass. 87 , 647 N.E.2d 1211 , 1213-14 (1995) (citation
omitted). [fn8]
Vicor's final assertion on this subject is that the [**11] district
court properly instructed the jury that costs to repair or
replace Vicor's power converters — its own property
— were not covered, and therefore the jury necessarily
awarded only costs related to the repair or replacement of
Ericsson's RBSs, of which the Vicor power converter was only a
small part. Putting aside the question of whether Atmel's holding is limited to cases of repairs to the
insured's own product — an interpretation we do not
accept — we conclude that the district court made no such
distinction. While the instruction used the example of [*15] replacing a defective power converter with a new one as a
non-covered "repair," it then went on to carve out an
"emergency repairs" exception to the proscription on indemnity
for general repair costs. In so doing, court did not
differentiate between the power converters and the RBSs.
As a result, the district court's jury instruction referencing
"emergency repairs" was erroneous. See Davignon v. Clemmey , 322 F.3d 1 , 9 (1st Cir. 2003) (stating that a jury
instruction is erroneous if it is incorrect as a matter of
law). Moreover, given that the emergency repair costs were,
pursuant to the jury instructions, a centerpiece of the
putative loss of use damages considered by the jury, the error
was prejudicial, and therefore the judgment must be vacated and
a new trial held. See Costa-Urena v. Segarra , 590 F.3d 18 , 24 (1st Cir. 2009).
As the insurers concede, however, an insured might be able to
recover any extra expenses above the ordinary cost of
repairs that reduce the eventual loss of use damages. This
possibility, which we suspect the district court had in mind
when formulating its jury instructions, is a corollary of the
traditional requirement that a party must take reasonable
measures to mitigate its damages. See Urico , 708 F.2d at 855 . The catch is that an insured seeking to capitalize on
this possibility must show that the mitigation measures (1)
somehow differed from ordinary repairs and (2) resulted in a
net savings, meaning that the added expense of the mitigation
measures was less than the savings generated by the decreased
loss of use damages. The first showing could be satisfied if,
for example, overtime work hastened the pace of repairs to
damaged property or the installation of a temporary mechanical
fix preserved some degree of functionality for the property
until repairs could be completed. The second showing demands a
reasonable degree of certainty as to the amount the insured's
loss of use damages would have been had the mitigation measures
not been implemented. Cf. Allens Mfg. Co. v. Napco, Inc. , 3 F.3d 502 , 505 (1st Cir. 1993) (explaining that a
plaintiff cannot rely on speculation to prove damages). In no
case, of course, could an insured recover more than this
amount, in keeping with the purpose of mitigation.
This possibility may be worth exploring on remand, if the
evidence provides a justification for doing so. Therefore, on
remand, the district court should fashion jury instructions
making clear that classic loss of use damages (such as lost
profits or the rental value of substitute property) that are
incurred while repairs [**12] are pending may be recovered by an
insured, but the actual costs of repairs may not. The district
court also may instruct the jury regarding the duty to mitigate
loss of use damages and may explain that the costs of
reasonable mitigation measures are recoverable, provided that
the mitigation measures are distinguishable from ordinary
repairs and result in a net savings. [fn9]
B. Other issues raised by the insurers
1. Other evidence of loss of use
Beyond the jury instruction issue, the insurers assert, without
much elaboration, that they are entitled to judgment in their
favor because the record lacks any evidence of loss of use
damages under the "correct" definition. The testimony and other
evidence adduced over eight trial days constitutes something of
a mixed bag, especially with respect to the precise contours of
Ericsson's payments to Cricket [*16] and CU. Thus, given the district court's erroneous
definition of loss of use damages, we believe this is an issue
best resolved by the district court upon remand, with due
consideration given to the appropriate measure of damages.
2. Insurers' Joint Motion to Compel
During the course of discovery, the insurers served various
written requests for production of documents related to the
Ericsson litigation and settlement. In addition to substantial
document production [fn10] , Vicor also produced a privilege log,
in which it justified the withholding of documents related to
the defense of the Ericsson litigation on the basis of the
attorney-client and work product privileges. The district court
denied the insurers' subsequent motion to compel without
comment. Continental appeals that denial. Because this issue
was fully joined, and stands a strong likelihood of re-emerging
after remand, we address it here.
At the heart of this dispute is the allocation of settlement
monies Vicor paid to Ericsson between covered and uncovered
claims. We sketch the background of the parties' relationship
before addressing the legal issue.
As previously described, Ericsson sued Vicor in California
state court in May 2004. Vicor promptly notified Vigilant and
Federal [fn11] of the suit. Subject to a reservation of rights
because of potential coverage issues, the insurers agreed to
provide defense and indemnity pursuant to the grant of coverage
for information and network technology liability contained in
Vigilant's errors and omission policy. They declined coverage
under their general liability policies because, in their view,
Ericsson's complaint did not allege third-party property
damage. [fn12] When Ericsson amended its complaint, however, the
insurers agreed to provide coverage under the general liability
policy. While Vicor, with the insurers' blessing, chose its own
defense counsel, the insurers required counsel to comply with
their billing guidelines and to provide periodic reports and
evaluations as conditions for payment. [fn13]
Although Vicor and Ericsson settled the underlying suit for $50
million in March 2007, they created no formal allocation of the
payments between covered [**13] and uncovered claims. Based on their
own investigation, primary insurers Vigilant and Federal
determined that the failure of the Vicor power converters
caused slightly more than $3 million in third-party property
damage that would be covered under the general liability
policies. They also paid the remaining $9.7 million remaining
on the technology liability coverage, with Vicor supplying $37
million to fulfill the terms of the settlement.
Fast-forwarding to the present litigation, exploration of the
Ericsson-Vicor settlement eventually led to the deposition of
Vicor official Richard Zengilowski, who could fairly be
described as Vicor's "point man" with respect to negotiations
with Ericsson. Zengilowski testified at his deposition that
none of the $50 million paid to Ericsson was for non-covered
claims. He described a process by which Ericsson's [*17] original claimed damages of $1-$3 billion morphed into
negotiations in the $135-$200 million range, before the parties
agreed on a settlement of $50 million. The insurers were
skeptical of Zengilowski's assertion, primarily because
Zengilowski also agreed during his deposition that various
categories of Ericsson's claimed damages that Vicor's defense
counsel had listed in a report it prepared prior to the
mediation were not covered. In light of this perceived
discrepancy, the insurers requested that Vicor produce all
documents withheld on privilege grounds that were part of the
Vicor-Ericsson lawsuit. As noted, the district court let
Vicor's refusal stand. [fn14] We review the district court's
ruling for abuse of discretion. Dennis v. Osram Sylvania, Inc. 549 F.3d 851 , 859 (1st Cir. 2008).
The party asserting the attorney-client or work product
privilege bears the burden of showing that the privilege
applies. Hanover Ins. Co. v. Rapo & Jepsen Ins. Servs., Inc. , 449 Mass. 609 , 870 N.E.2d 1105 , 1114 (2007). [fn15] If the privilege is established, the burden of proving any
exception falls to its proponent. Ogden , 202 F.3d at 460 .
The attorney client privilege "extends to all communications
made to an attorney or counsellor . . . and applied to by the
party in that capacity, with a view to obtain his advice and
opinion in matters of law, in relation to his legal rights,
duties and obligations, whether with a view to the prosecution
or defence of a suit or other lawful object." Hanover Ins. Co. , 870 N.E.2d at 1111 ( quoting Hatton v. Robinson , 31 Mass. 416 , 421 (1834)). The privilege
attaches to any communication between attorney and client in
confidentiality for the purpose of seeking, obtaining or
providing legal advice or assistance. In Re Reorganization of Elec. Mut. Ins. Co., Ltd. (Bermuda ), 425 Mass.419 , 681 N.E.2d 838 , 840 (1997).
"While the attorney-client privilege shields communications
between attorney and client (and in some cases third parties),
the work product doctrine protects an attorney's written
materials and `mental impressions.'" Comm'r of Revenue v. Comcast Corp. , 453 Mass. 293 , 901 N.E.2d 1185 , 1200 (2009)
( citing Hickman v. Taylor , 329 U.S. 495 , 510 , 67 S.Ct. 385 , 91 L.Ed. 451 (1947)). Codified in Mass. R. Civ. P.
26(b)(3) , the doctrine protects from discovery documents
prepared by a party's representative "in anticipation of
litigation." Id. at 314 , 901 N.E.2d 1185 . [fn16] The
protection can be overcome if the party seeking discovery
demonstrates "substantial need of the materials" [**14] and [*18] cannot obtain the "substantial equivalent" by other means
without undue hardship. Id . Finally, an attorney or
other representative's "mental impressions, conclusions,
opinions, or legal theories" are afforded greater protection
than "fact" work product, id . , which includes
"everything else that is eligible for protection as work
product. . . ." In Re Grand Jury Subpoena , 220 F.R.D. 130 , 145 (D.Mass. 2004).
The insurers do not expressly dispute that the documents at
issue fit within the ambit of the attorney-client
privilege. [fn17] Instead, they claim that they were entitled to
them under either of two exceptions, known as the "common
interest" and "at issue" doctrines. [fn18] Because application
of the former resolves this issue, we do not address the
latter.
The insurers urge us to follow the lead of the Illinois Supreme
Court in Waste Management, Inc., v. International Surplus Lines Insurance Co. , 144 Ill.2d 178 , 161 Ill.Dec. 774 , 579 N.E.2d 322 (1991), which held that under the common interest
doctrine, "when an attorney acts for two different parties who
each have a common interest, communications by either party to
the attorney are not necessarily privileged in a subsequent
controversy between the two parties." Id . , 161 Ill.Dec. 774 , 579 N.E.2d at 328 .
The parties expend significant energy debating whether Vicor
and the insurers actually possessed a common interest during
the Ericsson litigation, with Vicor arguing that the disputes
that would later ripen into this coverage litigation undermine
any common interest that may have existed. Vicor also points
out that Waste Management has been criticized. See, e.g., Remington Arms Co. v. Liberty Mut. Ins. Co. , 142 F.R.D. 408 , 417 (D.Del. 1992) (declining to follow Waste Management's "strange theory"); see also PETCO Animal Supplies Stores, Inc. v. Ins. Co. of N. Am , No. 10-682 (SRN/JSM) , 2011 WL 2490298 at *21 n. 12
(D.Minn. June 10, 2011) (listing cases rejecting Waste Management ).
We need not, however, venture beyond application of
Massachusetts law to resolve this issue. Massachusetts has
recognized an exception to the privilege that "renders the
privilege inapplicable to disputes between clients." Ogden , 202 F.3d at 461 ; Beacon Oil Co. v. Perelis , 263 Mass. 288 , 160 N.E. 892 , 894 (1928). "Thus,
when a lawyer represents multiple clients having a common
interest, communications between the lawyer and any one (or
more) of the clients are privileged as to outsiders, but not inter sese." Id. ; see also Dedham-Westwood Water Dist. v. Nat'l Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh , No. CIV.A.
96-00044 , 2000 WL 33593142 at *3 (Mass.Super. Feb. 4, 2000)
("[W]hen an attorney has been retained to represent both
insured and insurer in a third party action, communications by
either party will not be privileged . . . even if their
interests later diverge.") ( quoting Hoechst Celanese Corp. v. Nat'l Union Fire Ins. co. of Pittsburgh , 623 A.2d 1118 , 1123-24 (Del.Super.Ct. 1992)); EDO Corp. v. Newark Ins. Co. , 145 F.R.D. 18 , 23 (D.Conn. 1992) ("[c]ommunications
between an insured and its attorney connected with the defense
of underlying litigation are normally [*19] not privileged vis-a-vis the insured carriers in subsequent
litigation"). [fn19]
Vicor argues that the defense attorneys in the Ericsson
litigation did not represent both Vicor and the insurers.
Massachusetts law, however, considers an attorney retained by
an insurer to represent the insured as the attorney for both. Imperiali v. Pica , 338 Mass. 494 , 156 N.E.2d 44 , 47 (1959) ("[ [**15] A]n attorney undertaking the defense of the case
covered by the policy is an attorney for both the insurer and
the insured. . . ."); Rhodes v. AIG Domestic Claims, Inc. , No. 05-1360-BLS2 , 2006 WL 307911 at *9
(Mass.Super. Jan 27, 2006).
Vicor further argues that the fact that the insurers tendered
the underlying defense pursuant to a reservation of rights
defeats any claim of a common interest. We disagree. It is
undisputed that the primary insurers paid defense counsel and
partially funded the settlement with Ericsson. That suffices to
rebut Vicor's argument. Cf. Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. v. Allstate Ins. Co. , 74 Ohio Misc.2d 174 , 660 N.E.2d 765 , 769 (Ohio Com.Pl.1993) (no common interest where insurers
neither provided representation nor indemnified insured in
underlying suits).
Here, the record reflects multiple letters, reports and other
communications between underlying defense counsel and the
insurers regarding such matters as liability assessment,
strategic litigation planning and calculations of potential
damage outcomes. All were marked as "privileged and
confidential," and the parties agree they were privileged as to
third-parties, such as Ericsson. We agree with the reasoning
set forth in RPM, Inc. v. Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co., Inc. , No. 1:03CV1322 , slip op. at 12-13 (N.D. Ohio April 11, 2006) ( quoted in 1 Barry R. Ostrager
& Thomas R. Newman, Handbook on Insurance Coverage Disputes § 2.08[b] (14th ed. 2008)): "Plaintiffs
cannot have it both ways. They cannot make use of the benefit
of the common interest exception to avoid waiver of the
attorney-client privilege as to third parties and
simultaneously assert the privilege against the parties with
whom they share a common interest." Accordingly, we conclude
that the district court erred, and Vicor cannot rely on the
attorney-client privilege to shield all communications between
it and underlying defense counsel.
Resolution of the work-product privilege issue requires less
discussion. In the context of coverage litigation, it is a
touchstone of such a claim that Vicor must demonstrate that its
attorneys prepared the putatively shielded documents in
anticipation of a lawsuit with the insurers. EDO Corp. , 145 F.R.D. at 24 ; Textron, Inc. , 577 F.3d at 29 . In this case, events provide fairly clear lines of
demarcation. Documents produced while the insurers [*20] were providing a defense are unlikely to be protected;
those produced during the periods when the insurers denied
coverage — or refused to provide indemnity — are
likely to be protected. See EDO Corp. , 145 F.R.D. at 24 ; Hoechst Celanese Corp. , 623 A.2d at 1126 . Given
the fact that the precise nature of the Ericsson-Vicor
settlement is crucial to a determination of which of Ericsson's
claims are covered, the record supports the insurers'
substantial need for at least some of documents at issue. Thus,
to the extent that the district court's denial of the insurers'
motion to compel was based on application of the work product
doctrine, the court abused its discretion.
These conclusions do not quite end the matter. Resolution of
both the attorney-client and work product claims require a more
precise examination of the course of the relationship between
the parties as it relates to the Ericsson litigation [**16] and the
juncture at which various communications were made. We
acknowledge the difficulty entailed in the three-way
relationship recognized by Massachusetts law. The fact that
both the insured and insurer are deemed to be clients does not
mean that all communications are excepted from the applicable
privileges, or that the insurers are necessarily entitled to
the entire defense file, as they claim. From the current
record, however, we cannot make the necessary judgments about
which materials are subject to disclosure. It is enough to say,
however, that the district court abused its discretion in
denying the insurers' motion to compel in its entirety, and
upon remand, should tailor a discovery order consistent with
this opinion, should the parties not be able to reach
substantial agreement on their own. See Fed.R.Civ.P. 37 (a)(1) (requiring parties to confer regarding discovery
disputes or attempt to do so prior to filing motion to compel).
C. Vicor's cross-appeal
Vicor argues that the district court erred when it granted the
primary insurers summary judgment on Vicor's Breach of Duty to
Defend claim, which asserted that the insurers failed to meet
their obligation to pay Vicor's reasonable attorneys' fees in
the underlying litigation. The record reflects that Vicor paid
approximately $5.2 million of the $7.4 million billed by the
two defense firms Vicor chose in the underlying suit. The
district court order granting the motion stated that the
insurers had "discharged [their] obligations to pay reasonable
legal fees." Fee awards are reviewed for abuse of discretion. French v. Corporate Receivables, Inc. 489 F.3d 402 , 403 (1st Cir. 2007). We review the grant of summary judgment de
novo. Scottsdale Ins. Co. v. Torres , 561 F.3d 74 , 77 (1st Cir. 2009).
Vicor offers a number of arguments in support of its claim that
the district court erred. The first — that the district
court failed to explain how it arrived at the fee award
sufficiently to allow evaluation on appeal — carries the
day. Therefore we vacate the award so that the matter can be
addressed on remand. We briefly explain.
We are mindful of the Supreme Court's admonition that fee
litigation can, but should not, transform into the tail that
wags the dog. See City of Burlington v. Dague , 505 U.S. 557 , 566 , 112 S.Ct. 2638 , 120 L.Ed.2d 449 (1992). And
while the district court's attorneys' fee findings "need not be
infinitely precise, deluged with details, or even fully
articulated," Foley v. City of Lowell , 948 F.2d 10 , 20 (1st Cir. 1991), "we must have some basis for understanding its
reasoning." Mass. Eye & Ear Infirmary v. QLT Phototherapeutics , 552 F.3d 47 , 74 (1st Cir. 2009). While
the record suggests that the issue was well-joined in the
district court, the court's order provides us with no such
basis of understanding. The insurers argue that [*21] we can affirm because the district court was presented with
all relevant materials, and that "no elaboration is essential
if the reviewing court can without difficulty discern the basis
for the unexplained . . . finding from the record." United States v. One Star Class Sloop Sailboat , 546 F.3d 26 , 41 (1st Cir. 2008).
While the above-cited case is correctly quoted, we noted in One Star Class Sloop Sailboat that [**17] the district court
"cit[ed] book and verse, [and] found that [the prevailing
party] had stubbornly persisted in litigating (and then losing)
a cavalcade of issues." Id. Indeed, in a separate
— although brief — order, the district court in
that case addressed the parties' relative success, the
appropriate hourly rate, and what he believed to be
"overlitigation," in arriving at an award less than what the
prevailing party had requested. See United States v. One Star Class Sailboat , No. 05-10192-WGY , 2008 WL 678519 at
*1 (D.Mass. Jan. 9, 2008). Here, however, we have been provided
with no analytical guideposts from which we can undertake a
proper review. Thus, we must vacate the grant of summary
judgment as to the fee award and remand for further
consideration of the claim. We take no position on whether
summary judgment is the appropriate vehicle to resolve the
issue on remand.
V. Conclusion
The judgment of the district court is vacated. The
case is remanded for proceedings not inconsistent
with this opinion. [fn20] Each party shall bear its own costs.
[fn1] The facts set forth in this opinion are undisputed unless
otherwise noted.
[fn2] Testimony placed the outages in Idaho, Oregon and
Washington.
[fn3] The insurers' remaining $9.8 million contribution was
made pursuant to the policies' errors and omissions coverage,
which is not part of this litigation.
[fn4] Vicor argues that the insurers' objections to the
district court's instructions were not preserved because they
did not raise the objections again after the judge issued a
supplementary instruction in response to those objections. We
disagree. Objections to the loss of use instruction were lodged
after the district court announced its intention, prior to the
charging conference at which the district court ultimately
rejected the insurers' objections. We are satisfied that by
bringing their objections to the court's attention, the
insurers complied with Fed.R.Civ.P. 51 . See Surprenant v. Rivas , 424 F.3d 5 , 15 (1st Cir. 2005). Vicor focuses on a
subsequent colloquy that took place after the charging
conference, in which the court reiterated its earlier ruling.
In response, the insurers asked that a "reasonable time"
limitation be added to the "emergency repair" instruction. The
district court complied. Vicor argues that the insurers'
acquiescence to the supplemental "emergency repair" instruction
waives the previously raised objection. However, Vicor omitted
from its brief the question to which the insurers responded:
"As a supplementary charge, saving your rights as to earlier matters , supplementary charge satisfactory . . .
?" (emphasis added). Given this context, we find the jury
instruction issue was neither waived nor forfeited when the
insurers answered in the affirmative.
[fn5] The parties agree that Massachusetts law governs the
dispute insofar as interpretation of the subject insurance
policies is concerned.
[fn6] None of the parties argue that the definition of property
damage is ambiguous.
[fn7] The parties agree that there are no reported cases using
the "emergency repair" formulation in the context presented
here. At the same time, however, we note that no cases have
explicitly found the temporal limitation suggested by the
insurers.
[fn8] While the holding in Betty Caplette Builders was
dependent on certain policy exclusions that the insurers do not
press here, its comment on the general purpose of liability
insurance remains applicable.
[fn9] Given our decision on this issue, we decline to address
the insurers' other arguments premised on a finding that the
jury instruction was correct.
[fn10] The insurers describe the production as consisting of
over 6,500 documents; Vicor tallies the production at over 1
million pages.
[fn11] Continental, as an excess carrier, was not involved in
these early skirmishes.
[fn12] The errors and omissions policy had lower limits and a
narrower scope of coverage than the general liability
policy.
[fn13] The insurers paid Vicor's counsel approximately $5
million. A dispute over whether this amount fully satisfied
their obligation to pay for Vicor's defense is addressed, infra.
[fn14] After the motion to compel was denied, the insurers
issued trial subpoenas seeking a subset of the underlying
defense documents for purposes of cross examination. The
district court, while granting Vicor's motion to quash, ordered
Vicor to bring the withheld documents to court during trial,
should he "rethink it as we go along," in which case he would
order production. Vicor argues on appeal that the insurers'
failure to raise the issue later during trial constitutes
waiver. We disagree. In addition to the trial court stating
that its decision on the motion to compel might be "law of the
case" on the issue, the import of the judge's comment suggests
that he would re-consider the issue, if at all, on his own
initiative. These factors lead us to conclude that the insurers
did not "intentional[ly] relinquish[] . . . a known right." United States v. Carrasco-De-Jesus , 589 F.3d 22 , 26 (1st Cir. 2009).
[fn15] State law undergirds our analysis of the attorney-client
privilege in this diversity case. See FDIC v. Ogden Corp. , 202 F.3d 454 , 460 (1st Cir. 2000); Fed.R.Evid. 501 .
[fn16] Fed.R.Civ.P. 26 (b)(3) is the analogous federal
codification of Hickman. See United States v. Textron, Inc. , 577 F.3d 21 , 25 (1st Cir. 2009) (en banc).
[fn17] The parties did not address the two privileges
separately. Because they protect different interests, however,
we will do so. United States v. Nobles , 422 U.S. 225 , 238 n. 11, 95 S.Ct. 2160 , 45 L.Ed.2d 141 (1975) ( citing Hickman , 329 U.S. at 508 , 67 S.Ct. 385 ).
[fn18] Only documents created during the Ericsson litigation
are at issue in this appeal. No communications made during the
instant coverage litigation are being sought.
[fn19] Massachusetts has also used the term "common interest
doctrine" in a different way, interchangeably with the "joint
defense privilege." There, the doctrine " prevents clients from waiving the attorney-client privilege when
attorney-client communications are shared with a third person
who has a common legal interest with respect to these
communications. . . ." Cavallaro v. United States , 284 F.3d 236 , 250 (1st Cir. 2002) (emphasis added). It is "typically
understood to apply when two or more clients consult or retain
an attorney on particular matters of common interest." Ken's Foods, Inc. v. Ken's Steak House, Inc. , 213 F.R.D. 89 , 93 (D.Mass. 2002) (citation and internal quotation
marks omitted). "In such a situation, the communications
between each of them and the attorney are privileged against
third parties." Id . (citation and internal quotation
omitted). This branch of the doctrine is not at issue here.
Instead, it might have arisen in an attempt to shield
communications between Vicor and its defense counsel from
Ericsson in the underlying litigation.
[fn20] Given our vacatur of the judgment, we need not address
Vicor's appeal of the district court's reduction of the
verdict, or Continental's appeal of the judgment on the basis
that its excess policy was not brought into play by the jury's
allocation of damages over two separate policy years.
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | F.3d
** | BL

