[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit.
HOP ENERGY, L.L.C., Plaintiff-Appellant, v. LOCAL 553 PENSION FUND,
Defendant-Appellee.
Docket No. 10-3889-cv.
Argued: October 21, 2011.
Decided: May 3, 2012.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York, John G. Koeltl, J.
Linda L. Morkan (Frank F. Coulom. Jr., on the brief),
Robinson & Cole LLP, Hartford, CT, for Plaintiff-Appellant.
Eugene S. Friedman (William K. Wolf, Anusha Rasalingam,
Cristina E. Gallo, on the brief), Friedman & Wolf, New
York, NY, for Defendant-Appellee.
Eric Field, Assistant Chief Counsel (Israel Goldowitz, Chief
Counsel, Karen L. Morris, Deputy Chief Counsel, Beth A. Bangert
& Richard Luna, Attorneys, on the brief), Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation, Washington, D.C., for Amicus Curiae
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Before: JACOBS, Chief Judge, WESLEY, Circuit Judge, and
SULLIVAN, District Judge. [fn*]
[fn*] The Honorable Richard J. Sullivan, of the United States
District Court for the Southern District of New York, sitting
by designation.
Chief Judge JACOBS dissents by separate opinion.
WESLEY, Circuit Judge:
I.
Plaintiff-Appellant HOP Energy, L.L.C. ("HOP") delivers fuel
oil and provides heating services to homes and businesses in
Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, and Delaware through independent operating
divisions. Prior to May 12, 2007, it serviced New York City
customers through its Madison Oil ("Madison") operating
division. Madison was a "union shop" and had signed the
Teamsters Local 553 2004-07 Master Collective Bargaining
Agreement (the "2004-07 Master CBA"). On May 12, 2007, HOP sold
100% of Madison's operating assets to Approved Oil Company
("Approved"), also a signatory to the 2004-07 Master CBA.
Teamsters Local 553 has a multi-employer pension fund under the
Employee [*160] Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"). The 2004-07 Master
CBA based signatory contributions on the number of hours
respective employees worked.
To effectuate Madison's sale, HOP and Approved entered into an
Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA"). The APA provided:
[Approved] shall make contributions to the Local 553
  Pension Fund (the "Teamsters Fund") for substantially
  the same number of contribution base units for which
  [HOP] had an obligation to contribute with respect to
  the operations covered by the Teamsters Fund.
  Notwithstanding the previous sentence and except as
  otherwise provided in Section 12.1 , nothing in this Section shall impair or limit the Purchaser's right to discharge, lay off, or hire employees or otherwise to manage the operations of the Business, including the right to amend, revise or terminate any collective bargaining agreement currently in effect and, as a consequence, reduce to any extent the number of contribution base units with respect to which [Approved] has an obligation to contribute to any plan.
(emphasis added).
Following the sale, HOP ceased operations in New York City and
also ceased contributing to the Local 553 Pension Fund. The
fund's sponsor assessed HOP withdrawal liability for
$1,204,007. HOP asked the fund to reconsider the assessment,
claiming that the sale was exempt from withdrawal liability
because the Madison sale satisfied 29 U.S.C. § 1384 (a)(1)
as a bona fide asset sale. The fund upheld its assessment, and
HOP [**2] commenced an arbitration to challenge its liability.
Prior to the arbitration, HOP and Local 553 stipulated that the
asset sale satisfied §§ 1384(a)(1)(B) (bond requirement) and 1384(a)(1)(C) (requirement that the seller remain secondarily
liable for five years after the sale). Therefore, the only
issue for the arbitrator was whether Approved had a post-sale
obligation to contribute "substantially the same number of
contribution base units" as HOP. 29 U.S.C. § 1384 (a)(1)(A).
The arbitrator concluded that the sale did not satisfy § 1384(a)(1)(A) because the APA specifically disclaimed the
purported contribution obligation. The district court agreed;
HOP timely appealed.
II.
[2] We have yet to decide the standard of review for an
arbitrator's finding that a party does not qualify for an
exemption from withdrawal liability under 29 U.S.C. § 1384 (a)(1). Local 553 and amicus curiae Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation [fn1] ("PBGC") argue for "clear error"
review, while HOP argues for de novo review. The
question presented is inherently a question of law as it
requires review of contract language juxtaposed to a statutory
obligation. Other courts of appeals have found the proper
standard of review to be de novo ; we agree. See Bowers v. Andrew Weir Shipping, Ltd. , 27 F.3d 800 , 804-05 (2d Cir. 1994) (cataloging other cases and presuming, but not
deciding, that the standard of review was de novo ). [*161]
III.
[1] To qualify for the sale of assets exemption from withdrawal
liability, a purchaser must have substantially the same
post-sale "obligation to contribute" to the pension fund as the
seller had pre-sale. 29 U.S.C. § 1384 (a)(1)(A). The MPPAA
defines an "obligation to contribute" as one arising "(1) under
one or more collective bargaining (or related) agreements, or
(2) as a result of a duty under applicable labor-management
relations law." 29 U.S.C. § 1392 (a). It defines a
"contribution base unit" as "a unit with respect to which an
employer has an obligation to contribute under a multiemployer
plan." 29 U.S.C. § 1301 (a)(11).
Before HOP sold Madison to Approved, it had a year-to-year
ongoing ERISA obligation to maintain a threshold level of
contribution base units. If HOP reduced its contribution base
units by 70%, or partially ceased its contributions in a given
year, it would have been subject to partial withdrawal
liability. 29 U.S.C. § 1385 . If it permanently went out of
business or terminated Madison's operations, it would have been
subject to complete withdrawal liability. 29 U.S.C. § 1383 .
The MPPAA seeks to keep this pre-sale contribution obligation
constant to maintain the financial stability of the fund; a
sale of assets is only exempt from withdrawal liability if the
purchaser assumes substantially the same "obligation to
contribute" as the seller had pre-sale. [fn2]
Here, the "contribution base unit" was hours of employee pay.
The 2004-07 Master CBA obligated HOP to contribute to the
pension fund based on the hours of pay its Madison employees
worked. See 29 U.S.C. §§ 1301 (a)(ll), 1392 (a).
Thus, before the sale, HOP had a year-to-year ongoing ERISA
obligation to maintain a threshold level of hours of employee
pay. Therefore, for HOP to qualify for the sale of assets
exemption, Approved had to assume substantially the same
obligation: Approved had to have an obligation to contribute [**3] substantially the same hours of employee pay as HOP had
contributed pre-sale.
[3] HOP argues that Approved had the requisite contribution
obligation because Approved simply "stepped into HOP's shoes."
According to HOP, where HOP previously had contributed for a
Madison employee's "hour of pay," Approved would now have an
identical contribution obligation. The problem with HOP's
argument, however, is that it conflates two distinct terms: (1)
contribution base units and (2) contribution base unit rates. HOP's argument is that Approved had an
obligation to contribute to the fund at the same rate. We agree that Approved had this obligation. But Approved had no
obligation to maintain substantially the same number of "hours
of pay." Therefore, the sale did not qualify HOP for an
exemption from withdrawal liability.
Other sections of the statute support our view that
"contribution base unit" and "contribution base unit rate" are
distinct. For instance, when a plan assesses withdrawal
liability, it must calculate the annual withdrawal liability
payment, which, in pertinent part, is the product of "the
average annual number of contribution base units " and
the "highest contribution rate at which the employer
had an obligation to contribute." 29 U.S.C. § 1399 (c)(1)(C)(i) (emphases added). In another section, and as
mentioned earlier, the MPPAA explains [*162] that an employer partially withdraws from a plan and is
subject to partial withdrawal liability when its contributions
decline by at least 70% measured by comparing the number of contribution base units from year-to-year. 29 U.S.C. § 1385 (b). Under each of these sections, one
looks at the "number of hours of pay" as the "contribution base
unit." "[W]e read statutes as a whole, with no
section interpreted in isolation from the context of the whole Act." United States v. Al Kassar , 660 F.3d 108 , 124 (2d
Cir. 2011) (internal quotation marks omitted).
It is clear from the sale agreement that Approved had no
"obligation to contribute" substantially the same number of
hours of pay as HOP had contributed pre-sale. For one, the APA
specifically disclaimed any such obligation. In addition, HOP
offers no language in the 2004-07 Master CBA, any other
collective bargaining agreement, or any applicable labor
management relations law that obligated Approved to contribute
substantially the same number of hours of pay as HOP had
contributed pre-sale. [fn3] See 29 U.S.C. § 1392 (a). As the arbitrator explained:
Nothing in the union-employer agreements in the record
  [those between Local 553 and Approved] require[d]
  Approved, in respect to the operations of HOP, which
  for all practical purposes was the same as Approved's,
  to keep a certain number of employees, whether from
  Approved's ranks or HOP's, on the payroll to achieve a
  contribution base unit level that would remain
  substantially the same as HOP's pre-sale.
We agree with the district court that Approved lacked an
"obligation to contribute . . . substantially the same number
of contribution base units" to the pension fund as HOP had
contributed pre-sale.
Finally, it makes no difference that Approved might actually have contributed to the plan based on
substantially [**4] the same number of hours of pay as HOP had
contributed pre-sale. Section 1384(a)(1) (A) focuses on the
purchaser's obligation at the time the sale closes and
not what happens after the fact. Cent. States, Se. & Sw. Areas Health & Welfare Fund , 973 F.2d at 1338 .
IV.
[4] HOP next argues that the arbitrator erred by excluding
extrinsic evidence about its intent when entering the APA. New
York law governs the APA. Under New York law, a court must give
full effect to unambiguous contract terms. See Greenfield v. Philles Records, Inc. , 98 N.Y.2d 562 , 569 , 750 N.Y.S.2d 565 , 780 N.E.2d 166 (2002). Extrinsic evidence cannot be used
to vary the terms of a facially unambiguous contract. See Chimart Assocs. v. Paul , 66 N.Y.2d 570 , 572 , 498 N.Y.S.2d 344 , 489 N.E.2d 231 (1986). With unambiguous contracts, a
party's subjective intent and understanding of the terms is
irrelevant. Additionally, under the MPPAA, it is the arbitrator
who determines whether a contract is ambiguous. Joseph Schlitz Brewing Co. v. Milwaukee Brewery Workers' Pension Plan , 3 F.3d 994 , 999 (7th Cir. 1993). Here, the arbitrator
found the contract unambiguous. This was not error.
V.
[5] The dissent presses for reversal because, it asserts, the
majority opinion [*163] views the purchaser's obligation to contribute as ongoing
and, apparently, perpetual. Dissenting Op. at 164-65. But, as
the dissent recognizes, the duration of the buyer's obligation
to contribute was neither raised by the parties nor decided by
this majority opinion. The sole issue presented for review was
whether, at the time of sale, Approved had substantially the
same obligation to contribute as HOP. We think it clear
Approved did not.
Our dissenting brother fears that our decision can be read to
imply an "obligation to maintain historical contribution levels
into the future." Dissenting Op. at 166. We see no reason to
decide an issue out of fear that some will misunderstand our
efforts here when the parties never raised the issue.
Simply put, 29 U.S.C. § 1384 (a)(1)(A) does not address the
duration of the purchaser's obligation to contribute. It asks
only whether the purchaser had the same obligation to
contribute as the seller at the time of sale. If the plain
language of the statute impairs the ability of an employer to
sell its business (we are not sure it does), as our dissenting
brother fears, the problem lies with the statute and not this
Court.
Judges are not statutory fix-it-folk. No one, including our
dissenting brother, has argued that the statute imposes an
absurd result. See Green v. Bock Laundry Mack Co. , 490 U.S. 504 , 527 , 109 S.Ct. 1981 , 104 L.Ed.2d 557 (1989) (Scalia,
J., concurring).
While we do not dispute that the dissent raises an issue of
concern, we do not feel called upon to address it. [fn4]
CONCLUSION
HOP has not demonstrated that Approved was obligated
to contribute substantially the same number of "contribution
base units" (hours of pay) as HOP had contributed
pre-sale. The arbitrator did not err by excluding extrinsic
evidence of the parties' intent when entering the transaction
because the APA was unambiguous. We therefore AFFIRM the district court's judgment.
AFFIRMED.
[fn1] PBGC is the federal government agency responsible for
administering and enforcing Title IV of ERISA, including the
provisions added by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments
Act ("MPPAA"). It often appears as amicus curiae in cases
involving MPPAA issues and its views on such issues are
entitled to deference. Beck v. PACE Int'l Union , 551 U.S. 96 , 104 , 127 S.Ct. 2310 , 168 L.Ed.2d 1 (2007). On December
15, 2011, PBGC responded to our invitation to the United States
government to provide its views on certain issues.
[fn2] The purpose of withdrawal liability "is to relieve the
funding burden on remaining employers and to eliminate the
incentive to pull out of a plan which would result if liability
were imposed only on a mass withdrawal by all employers." Park S. Hotel Corp. v. N.Y. Hotel Trades Council , 851 F.2d 578 , 580 (2d Cir. 1988).
[fn3] For instance, as part of the sale, Approved could have
entered a stand alone collective bargaining agreement with
Local 553 obligating it to ensure substantially the same number
of hours of pay as HOP had provided pre-sale. See Cent. States, Se. & Sw. Areas Health & Welfare Fund v. Cullum Co., Inc. , 973 F.2d 1333 , 1338 (7th Cir. 1992).
[fn4] It does strike us as odd that, notwithstanding the
dissent's plausible concern that the statute affects the
alienability of businesses that are subject to the type of
retirement plans at issue here, there is a dearth of cases
dealing with this issue.
DENNIS JACOBS, Chief Judge, dissenting:
I agree with much of the majority opinion; but because I
part company on one decisive point, and urge an analysis that
was not expressly argued on appeal, I respectfully dissent.
Under the Multiemployer [**5] Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980
("MPPAA"), an employer that withdraws from a plan —
either by ending contributions or by dipping below 30% of its
contribution level — is liable for its proportionate
share of the unfunded vested benefits, with exceptions. See 29 U.S.C. §§ 1381 , 1383 , 1385 . If a company
ceases making contributions because it has sold its assets, the
MPPAA provides an exemption from withdrawal liability upon
three conditions, including that the purchaser undertakes "an
obligation to contribute to the plan with respect to the
operations for substantially the same number of contribution
base units for which the seller had an obligation to contribute
to the plan." Id . § 1384(a)(1)(A) . Here, the buyer
undertook just such an obligation when it stepped into the
seller's shoes pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement (the
"Purchase Agreement"). Because the buyer's post-sale
obligations were identical to the [*164] seller's obligations pre-sale, the transaction complied
with the sale-of-assets exemption.
I
Under the sale-of-assets exemption from withdrawal liability, a
seller is deemed to have withdrawn from a multi-employer
pension plan following a bona fide arm's-length asset sale
unless three conditions are satisfied. It is stipulated that
two of these conditions have been satisfied here, in the sale
of Madison Oil by HOP Energy, LLC, to Approved Oil Company.
First, Approved has posted a bond (for the greater of the
three-year average of HOP's contributions or its contribution
in the year before the sale), payable if Approved withdraws
from the plan or defaults within five years of the sale. Id . § 1384(a)(1)(B) . Second, the Purchase
Agreement provides that, if Approved withdraws from the plan
within five years after the sale, HOP as seller is secondarily
liable for any withdrawal liability. Id . § 1384(a)(1)(C) .
Given compliance with these two conditions, payment of
withdrawal liability is secured even if the successor employer
withdraws. In this way, the purpose of the statute — the
assured funding of multi-employer plans — is achieved. See Park S. Hotel Corp. v. N.Y. Hotel Trades Council , 851 F.2d 578 , 580 (2d Cir. 1988); see also 29 U.S.C. § 1369 (a) (imposing liability where "a principal purpose of
any person in entering into any transaction is to evade
liability to which such person would be subject" under the
MPPAA). Even so, however, compliance with those two conditions
secures withdrawal liability only if the buyer uses the assets
to continue the business: The triggering event — the
buyer's withdrawal — can occur only if the buyer first
assumes the obligation to contribute.
The buyer's obligation to contribute is assured by the third
condition, the one at issue on this appeal: that "the purchaser
[have] an obligation to contribute to the plan with respect to
the operations for substantially the same number of
contribution base units for which the seller had an obligation
to contribute to the plan." Id . § 1384(a)(1)(A) .
An "obligation to contribute" may arise, as here, under a
collective bargaining agreement ("CBA"). Id . § 1392(a)(1) .
II
As the majority opinion reads the third condition, the buyer's
ongoing obligation is to contribute in the future at
substantially the same level as the seller' [**6] s contributions as
of the transaction date. One remarkable feature of that reading
is that it has no end-point. The majority opinion does not
reach that issue, and the parties do not argue it. But it seems
to me decisive that the obligation recognized in the majority
opinion runs to an unspecified future, or in perpetuity. That
would be an unaccountable omission in a statute that elsewhere
(as set out above) fixes exact time parameters for the
obligations it creates: the period of the bond (five years),
the contribution periods for calculating the bond amount (three
years or one, depending), the period of the seller's indemnity
for the buyer's obligation (five years).
I do not believe that the third condition requires the buyer to
commit to maintain a historical level of contributions for an
unknown time in the future. In my view, the purchaser's
obligation is a test, applied at the time of the sale
transaction, and does not outlive the transition from one
employer to the other. See Cent. States, Se. & Stv. Areas Health & Welfare Fund v. Cullum , 973 F.2d 1333 , 1338 (7th Cir. 1992) ("The time for determining whether the
requirement in section 1384(a)(1) (A) has [*165] been met is at the time of the sale, not afterwards."); Jaspan v. Certified Indus., Inc. , 645 F.Supp. 998 , 1005 (E.D.N.Y. 1985) (same).
The evident purpose of the condition is to establish continuity
between the obligations of the seller immediately prior to the
sale and the obligations of the buyer immediately thereafter.
It requires the buyer to take the assets subject to the
collective bargaining agreement of the seller (or enter into
one of its own), and thus prevents the buyer from severing the
physical assets of the business from the human capital that
worked them. So if the buyer intends to resell the assets or
move the business elsewhere, and thereby avoid assuming the
seller's obligations under the plan, then the seller will be
assessed withdrawal liability; the seller can avoid liability
only if the buyer inherits the seller's contribution
obligations going forward. An analogous provision is § 1398(1) , which states that no withdrawal liability is incurred
following certain changes in ownership structure, such as
mergers and consolidations, so long as "the change causes no
interruption in employer contributions or obligations to
contribute under the plan." 29 U.S.C. § 1398 (1).
Once the third condition is satisfied, that is, once the
seller's contribution obligation passes to the buyer, the plan
suffers no harm on account of the transaction alone. The
purchaser may later increase or reduce the aggregate number of
hours worked by its employees (with such consequences as the
CBA and the statute may provide); but these are operational
decisions that the seller was free to make if there had been no
sale. What comes after, once the buyer is in the shoes of the
seller, is that the buyer may go wherever the seller could have
gone.
III
The transaction at issue complied with the sale-of-assets
exemption from withdrawal liability. Under the CBA to which HOP
and Approved were both signatories, employers are required to
make contributions to the Local 553 Pension Fund (the "Fund")
for "all hours [**7] of which pay is drawn by an employer for each of
his employees covered by the collective bargaining agreement"
at a specified hourly rate which increases annually (subject to
a 1700 hour cap per employee per year). As the majority opinion
demonstrates, the relevant "contribution base unit" is
therefore each hour worked by covered employees. See id . § 1301(a)(11) . The Purchase Agreement duly
provides (adapting the wording of the statute) that Approved
"shall make contributions to the Local 553 Pension Fund . . .
for substantially the same number of contribution base units
for which [HOP] had an obligation to contribute with respect to
the operations covered by the Teamster's Fund." By virtue of
this wording, as well as Approved's express assumption of HOP's
CBA and Approved's own CBA with Teamster's Local 553, Approved
undertook substantially the same contribution obligation that
HOP had prior to the sale: to contribute a particular amount
for each hour worked by its covered employees. Presale, HOP had
no obligation to maintain any particular absolute contribution
level from month to month or year to year; the statute demands
no more from Approved.
The buyer's necessary obligation is in no way undermined by the
proviso in the Purchase Agreement that it does not "limit
[Approved' s] right to discharge, lay off or hire employees or
otherwise to manage the operations of the Business, including
the right to amend, revise or terminate any collective
bargaining agreement currently in effect and, as a consequence,
reduce to [*166] any extent the number of contribution base units with
respect to which [Approved] has an obligation to contribute to
any plan." This proviso is an admirable summary of the right
that HOP enjoyed prior to the transaction, and that Approved
enjoys under substantive labor law and the CBA. Every other
contributor to the Fund enjoys that same right.
IV
The majority opinion matters because it can be read to say
(though it does not hold) that a purchaser of assets must agree
not to reduce its plan contributions ( i.e. , not to
reduce the number of hours worked by its employees) forever,
come hell or high water. Of course, this would render many
businesses unsalable. Any obligation to maintain historical
contribution levels into the future, perpetual or not, raises
radical and expensive uncertainties. HOP's withdrawal
liability, fully one-third of the $3.6 million purchase price,
is imposed because the statutory undertaking recited in the
Purchase Agreement was qualified by a proviso that affirms the
right of Approved to control the business going forward. The
prospect of such a punishing liability may compel sellers to
insist on an undertaking by the purchaser that omits the
proviso and that therefore might be read to guarantee the
seller's historical contribution levels ad infinitum. But what
rational buyer would be willing to acquire a business if it had
to make such a commitment, and assume unknown risks for an
unknown period?
I would reverse.
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | F.3d
** | BL

