[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, Sixth Circuit.
Joshua REILLY, Plaintiff-Appellee, v. Seetha VADLAMUDI and Phillip Payne,
Defendants-Appellants, Terry D. Smith and Correctional Medical Services,
Defendants.
No. 11-1252.
Argued: April 12, 2012.
Decided and Filed: May 25, 2012.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Michigan, Stephen J. Murphy III, J.

[EDITORS' NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINED HEADNOTES AND HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN
OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.]
[EDITORS' NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINED HEADNOTES AND HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN
OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.]
ARGUED: Clifton Schneider, Office of the Michigan Attorney General, Lansing,
Michigan, for Appellants. Derek J. Brackon, McKeen & Associates, P.C.,
Detroit, Michigan, for Appellee. ON BRIEF: Clifton Schneider, Office of the
Michigan Attorney General, Lansing, Michigan, for Appellants. Derek J.
Brackon, McKeen & Associates, P.C., Detroit, Michigan, for Appellee.
Before: DAUGHTREY and ROGERS, Circuit Judges; ZOUHARY, District Judge. [fn*]
[fn*] The Honorable Jack Zouhary, United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Ohio, sitting by designation.
ZOUHARY, District Judge.
OPINION
This is a prisoner civil rights action brought by Plaintiff-Appellee
Joshua Reilly against the doctor and nurses who treated him in prison.
Plaintiff began experiencing severe headaches and swelling in his left eye
in 2007 while incarcerated at the Mound Correctional Facility in Detroit,
Michigan. In 2008, shortly after his release, Plaintiff was diagnosed with
Ewing's Sarcoma, a serious form of bone cancer. According to Plaintiff,
surgery would have been sufficient to treat the disease had prison staff
detected it earlier. However, due to the late diagnosis, chemotherapy and
radiation is now necessary. This action claims Eighth Amendment violations
under 42 U.S.C. § 1983 as well as medical malpractice under Michigan law.
Defendants, Dr. Seetha Vadlamudi and nurses Phillip Payne and Terry Smith,
moved for judgment on the pleadings under Federal Civil Rule 12(c) ,
asserting that they are immune from liability. Following a hearing, the
district court denied the motion, holding Plaintiff pled "sufficient facts
upon which one could draw the inference that [Defendants] violated the Eighth Amendment and committed medical malpractice." Dr. Vadlamudi and nurse
Payne filed this interlocutory appeal, arguing their involvement with
Plaintiff was minimal and cannot form the basis for a finding of deliberate
indifference or gross negligence. Nurse Smith, who evaluated Plaintiff after
eleven months of eye pain, severe headaches, and vomiting, did not join the
appeal.
For reasons set forth below, we REVERSE and order the entry of judgment in
favor of Dr. Vadlamudi and Payne.
MEDICAL HISTORY
Michigan prisoners are able to receive medical attention in prison by
filing a "kite" request with the prison warden, who then refers the prisoner
to a physician or nurse provided to the prison system by Correctional
Medical Services, a Missouri corporation. Plaintiffs medical history is laid
out in some detail in the Complaint, as follows.
Plaintiff first requested medical assistance [*2] on February 13, 2007,
reporting a headache and swelling over his left eye. He was referred to Dr.
Vadlamudi, who recommended applying a warm compress

to the eye. Three days later, Plaintiff was treated (records do not disclose
by whom) for a headache and was told to take Tylenol and drink coffee. The
Complaint does not indicate whether these remedies were effective in
treating Plaintiffs pain in the short term.
On June 6, Plaintiff submitted another request, this time reporting a bump
over his left eye. Payne examined Plaintiff, concluded the bump was an
innocuous calcium nodule, and recommended no treatment. Plaintiff returned
on July 8, but there is no indication who treated Plaintiff or what happened
during this visit. Payne saw Plaintiff a second time on October 7, and
referred him to an optometrist who prescribed eye drops and glasses.
Finally, on December 27, Smith treated Plaintiff who relayed an eleven-month
history of left eye problems. Smith noted a small nodule under Plaintiffs
left brow, recommended he take Tylenol, and told him to report back if he
experienced continued vomiting.
Soon after his consultation with Smith, Plaintiff was released from
prison. He visited the Kellogg Eye Center at the University of Michigan for
evaluation of the nodule above his eye and his headaches. ACT scan performed
in April 2008 revealed the nodule was cancerous, and doctors ultimately
diagnosed Plaintiff with Ewing's Sarcoma, a rare form of cancer that
develops in bone or soft tissue.
The Complaint indicates Dr. Vadlamudi treated Plaintiff only once, and
Plaintiff presented with no pre-existing condition. Further, Payne treated
Plaintiff twice and referred him to an optometrist for further evaluation.
These Defendants argue on appeal that their involvement with Plaintiff was
minimal and cannot form the basis for a finding of deliberate indifference
or gross negligence.
ANALYSIS
Standard of Review
This Court reviews a district court's denial of qualified immunity de novo. Gregory v. City of Louisville , 444 F.3d 725 , 742 (6th Cir.2006). The
applicability of governmental immunity under Michigan law is also reviewed de novo. Herman v. City of Detroit , 261 Mich.App. 141 , 680 N.W.2d 71 , 74 (2004). This interlocutory appeal is properly before this Court under 28 U.S.C. § 1291 because the denial of qualified immunity constitutes a
"final decision" of a district court when, as here, it turns on pure issues
of law. Mitchell v. Forsyth , 472 U.S. 511 , 530 , 105 S.Ct. 2806 , 86 L.Ed.2d 411 (1985); see also Rich v. City of May field Heights , 955 F.2d 1092 , 1094 (6th Cir.1992) (holding denials "on the basis of
qualified immunity are immediately appealable under the collateral order
doctrine").
A district court's denial of a motion for judgment on the pleadings under Federal Civil Rule 12(c) is "analyzed under the same de novo standard as
motions to dismiss pursuant to Rule 12(b)(6) ." Sensations, Inc. v. City of Grand Rapids , 526 F.3d 291 , 295 (6th Cir.2008). In scrutinizing a complaint
under Rule 12(b)(6) , this Court is required to "accept all well-pleaded
factual allegations of the complaint as true and construe the complaint in
the light most favorable to the plaintiff." Dubay v. Wells , 506 F.3d 422 , 426 (6th Cir.2007). Although a complaint [*3] need not contain "detailed factual
allegations," it does require more than "labels and conclusions" or "a
formulaic recitation of the elements of a cause of action." Bell Atl. Corp. v. Twombly , 550 U.S. 544 , 555 , 127 S.Ct. 1955 , 167 L.Ed.2d 929 (2007). Thus,
a complaint survives a motion to dismiss if it "contain[s] sufficient
factual matter, accepted as true, to state a claim to relief

that is plausible on its face." Ashcroft v. Iqbal , 556 U.S. 662 , 129 S.Ct. 1937 , 1949 , 173 L.Ed.2d 868 (2009). And, "[a] claim has facial
plausibility when the plaintiff pleads factual content that allows the court
to draw the reasonable inference that the defendant is liable for the
misconduct alleged." Hensley Mfg. v. ProPride, Inc. , 576 F.3d 603 , 609 (6th
Cir.2009) (quoting Iqbal , 129 S.Ct. at 1949 ).
Section 1983 and Qualified Immunity
Plaintiff argues Defendants are liable because their medical treatment —
or failure to treat — amounted to "deliberate indifference" in violation of
the Eighth Amendment . This claim arises under 42 U.S.C. § 1983 , which
creates a civil cause of action against individuals who, while acting under
color of state law, deprive a person of the "rights, privileges or
immunities secured by the Constitution or laws" of the United States. See Bennett v. City of Eastpointe , 410 F.3d 810 , 817 (6th Cir.2005); Gregory , 444 F.3d at 738 . Section 1983 claims, however, are subject to the
affirmative defense of qualified immunity which, if applicable, shields
individuals not just against liability, but against the suit itself. See Pearson v. Callahan , 555 U.S. 223 , 231 , 129 S.Ct. 808 , 172 L.Ed.2d 565 (2J009). The burden rests on Plaintiff to sliow Defendants are not entitled
to immunity. Untalan v. City of Lorain , 430 F.3d 312 , 314 (6th Cir.2005).
Qualified immunity protects state officials, including prison employees,
so long as "their conduct does not violate clearly established statutory or
constitutional rights of which a reasonable person would have known." Cochran v. Gilliam , 656 F.3d 300 , 306 (6th Cir.2011) (quoting Harlow v. Fitzgerald , 457 U.S. 800 , 818 , 102 S.Ct. 2727 , 73 L.Ed.2d 396 (1982)). In
resolving qualified immunity claims, we ask whether: (1) the facts, viewed
in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, show a violation of a
constitutional right; and (2) the right at issue was "clearly established"
at the time of the alleged misconduct. Id. (citing Saucier v. Katz , 533 U.S. 194 , 201 , 121 S.Ct. 2151 , 150 L.Ed.2d 272 (2001)). While this Court
can consider these prongs in either order, Pearson , 555 U.S. at 236 , 129 S.Ct. 808 , we do not need to reach the "clearly established" prong in
this case because, as discussed below, there are no allegations of a
constitutional violation.
Eighth Amendment Liability
Plaintiffs constitutional claims under Section 1983 are based on alleged
violations of the Eighth Amendment , which "forbids prison officials from
`unnecessarily and wantonly inflicting pain' on an inmate by acting with
`deliberate indifference' toward [his] serious medical needs." Blackmore v. Kalamazoo County , 390 F.3d 890 , 895 (6th Cir.2004) (quoting Estelle v. Gamble , 429 U.S. 97 , 104 , 97 S.Ct. 285 , 50 L.Ed.2d 251 (1976)). [fn1]
The Eighth Amendment embodies "broad and idealistic concepts of dignity,
civilized standards, humanity, and decency" against which courts must
evaluate penal measures. Estelle , 429 U.S. at 102 , 97 S.Ct. 285 . "These
elementary principles establish the government's obligation to provide
medical care for those whom it is punishing by incarceration." Id. at 103 , 97 S.Ct. 285 . In Wilson v. Setter , the Supreme Court set forth a two-step
frame

work for determining whether [*4] certain conditions of confinement constitute
"cruel and unusual punishment" prohibited by the Eighth Amendment . 501 U.S. 294 , 298 , 111 S.Ct. 2321 , 115 L.Ed.2d 271 (1991). That framework
consists of an objective and a subjective component. Blackmore , 390 F.3d at 895 .
First, Plaintiff must plead facts which, if true, establish the existence
of a "sufficiently serious" medical need. Id . Seriousness is measured
objectively, in response to "contemporary standards of decency." Hudson v. McMillian , 503 U.S. 1 , 8 , 112 S.Ct. 995 , 117 L.Ed.2d 156 (1992) (citing Estelle , 429 U.S. at 103 , 97 S.Ct. 285 ). Essentially, a prisoner "must show
that he is incarcerated under conditions posing a substantial risk of
serious harm." Farmer v. Brennan , 511 U.S. 825 , 834 , 114 S.Ct. 1970 , 128 L.Ed.2d 811 (1994).
Second, Plaintiff must establish the subjective element: he must
demonstrate Defendants acted with "a sufficiently culpable state of mind in
denying medical care." Blackmore , 390 F.3d at 895 . Only "deliberate
indifference" to serious medical needs will implicate the protections of the Eighth Amendment . Deliberate indifference is characterized by obduracy or
wantonness — it cannot be predicated on negligence, inadvertence, or good
faith error. Whitley v. Albers , 475 U.S. 312 , 319 , 106 S.Ct. 1078 , 89 L.Ed.2d 251 (1986). For liability to attach, Defendants must have been
"aware of facts from which the inference could be drawn that a substantial
risk of serious harm exist[ed]." Farmer , 511 U.S. at 837 , 114 S.Ct. 1970 .
Indeed, "[k]nowledge of the asserted serious needs or of circumstances
clearly indicating the existence of such needs, is essential to a finding of
deliberate indifference." Blackmore , 390 F.3d at 896 .
In the medical context, the Supreme Court emphasized that "an inadvertent
failure to provide adequate medical care cannot be said to constitute `an
unnecessary and wanton infliction of pain' or to be `repugnant to the
conscience of man-kind.'" Estelle , 429 U.S. at 105-06 , 97 S.Ct. 285 .
Therefore, "a complaint that a physician has been negligent in diagnosing or
treating a medical condition does not state a valid claim of medical
mistreatment under the Eighth Amendment ." Id . To state a cognizable claim,
Plaintiff "must allege acts or omissions sufficiently harmful to evidence
deliberate indifference to serious medical needs" — indifference that
offends the "evolving standards of decency" under the Eighth Amendment . Estelle , 429 U.S. at 106 , 97 S.Ct. 285 .
The Complaint Does Not Support a Constitutional Violation
In the proceedings below, the parties agreed that Plaintiffs condition
meets the objective component of his claim. We also agree. There is no doubt
that a rare and potentially fatal form of cancer meets the objective
criteria of an Eighth Amendment claim. See, e.g., Jones v. Muskegon County , 625 F.3d 935 , 942 (6th Cir.2010) (holding colorectal cancer is a
"sufficiently serious medical need"). The remaining issue becomes whether
the Complaint supports Plaintiffs claim that Defendants Dr. Vadlamudi and
Payne acted with deliberate indifference to his medical needs.
Because it is well-settled that qualified immunity must be assessed in the
context of each individual's specific conduct, this Court analyzes
separately the allegations concerning the conduct of each Defendant. See Heyne v. Metro. Nashville Pub. Sck , 655 F.3d 556 , 564 (6th Cir.2011); see also Iqbal , 129 S.Ct. at 1948 ("[A] plaintiff must plead that each
Government-official defendant, through [*5] the official's own individual actions , has violated the Constitution.") (emphasis added).
Dr. Vadlamudi
Plaintiff paid a single visit to Dr. Vadlamudi in February 2007. During
that visit, Dr. Vadlamudi examined Plaintiff for a headache and left-eye
swelling. Plaintiff reported no history of headaches or swelling, nor any
other continuous symptoms. Based on these minimal symptoms, Dr. Vadlamudi
administered warm compresses to the left eye. Plaintiff alleges no further
contact with the doctor.
In denying Defendants' motion, the district court relied on McElligott v. Foley , 182 F.3d 1248 (11th Cir.1999). But the facts of that case are not
analogous. Defendants in McElligott — also a doctor and nurse — were both
aware of the prisoner's ongoing complaints of abdominal pain for a period of
five months. The doctor's treatment notes reflected "he was aware that
[plaintiff] was suffering from serious abdominal pain." Id. at 1256 .
Defendants were "aware that plaintiffs condition was, in fact,
deteriorating, and still did nothing to treat this deteriorating state." Id.
at 12 $9. The medication "was not treating the severe pain [plaintiff] was
experiencing," yet defendants "did nothing to treat [him]." Id. at 1257 . The
court held "[a] jury could infer deliberate indifference from the fact that
[defendants] knew the extent of [plaintiffs] pain, knew that the course of
treatment was largely ineffective, and declined to do anything more to
attempt to improve [his] condition." Id. at 1257 - 58 (citation omitted).
Here, there are no allegations that Dr. Vajdlamudi knew of a serious
condition, or of I circumstances clearly indicating such condition, which
"is essential to a finding of deliberate indifference." Blackmore , 39Q F.3d
at 896 . Indeed, the linchpin in McElligott was defendants' awareness coupled
with their disregard of the prisoner's deteriorating and serious condition.
Even so, McElligott recognized defendants could not be held liable for
failing to diagnose what turned out to be a serious case of colon cancer. 182 F.3d at 1256 . That failure could only be deemed "extremely negligent,"
not deliberate indifference. Id .
Here, Dr. Vadlamudi had a lone contact with Plaintiff, with no history of
any symptoms suggesting cancer. The Complaint alleges Dr. Vadlamudi failed
to: "[o]btain and appreciate an appropriate [medical] history;" "obtain
appropriate diagnostic studies;" "include malignant tumor in the []
diagnosis;" "promptly refer [Plaintiff] to or consult with [a] . . .
specialist;" "provide timely . . . medical care;" and ensure Plaintiff "is
evaluated by a physician." These allegations may support a claim for
professional negligence, but under established law, deliberate indifference
"entails something more than mere negligence." Blackmore , 390 F.3d at 895 (quoting Farmer , 511 U.S. at 835 , 114 S.Ct. 1970 ); see also Estelle , 429 U.S. at 105-06 , 97 S.Ct. 285 . Absent allegations that Dr. Vadlamudi was
"aware of facts from which the inference could be drawn that a substantial
risk of serious harm exist[ed]," and that he actually "[drew] the
inference," Plaintiffs Eighth Amendment claim cannot survive. Farmer , 511 U.S. at 837 , 114 S.Ct. 1970 .
This conclusion is supported by Sanderfer v. Nichols , a case that, while
resolved on summary judgment, [*6] is strikingly similar to this case. 62 F.3d 151 , 154 (6th Cir.1995). Much like Plaintiff here, the plaintiff in Sanderfer alleged the defendant failed to: review his medical history;
discover a serious medical need; recognize he should have been referred to a
specialist; restrict his activities to those appropriate for one with his
condition; and prescribe appropriate medication. Id. at 154 . Plaintiff

suffered a heart attack and died in jail. Id. at 153 . In reversing the
district court's denial of qualified immunity, we held the defendant
"obviously was not aware that [plaintiff] was at a substantial risk of heart
failure" and "could not be `deliberately indifferent' to this risk when she
made her diagnosis." Id. at 155 . Because the record did not show defendant
was aware "of facts from which she could and did draw the inference that her
conduct posed a substantial risk of serious harm," qualified immunity was
appropriate. Id .
To be sure, in hindsight, looking at Plaintiffs subsequent medical
history, additional treatment may have been appropriate in this case.
However, when Dr. Vadlamudi treated Plaintiff, there was no indication he
was suffering from a rare form of bone cancer — only minor symptoms. Simply
put, the Complaint, construed in a light most favorable to Plaintiff, does
not contain sufficient facts to support the claim that Dr. Vadlamudi
unnecessarily and wantonly inflicted pain by acting with deliberate
indifference toward his serious medical needs.
Nurse Payne
Plaintiffs Eighth Amendment claim against Payne fails for the same reasons
explained above. Payne examined Plaintiff twice: once in June 2007, and then
again in October 2007. During Plaintiffs first visit, Payne "noted a small
raised area over the left eye," which he described "as a soft nodule,
appearing to be a calcium deposit." This diagnosis warranted no treatment.
There are no allegations from which it can be inferred Payne was, or should
have been, aware of a serious medical condition. Plaintiff had not visited
Payne before, did not tell Payne about prolonged or continuous symptoms, and
never previously complained "of a bump over the left eye" — only of
headaches and eye swelling.
Approximately four months later, Plaintiff, complaining of "left eye ball
pain," made a second visit to Payne. Plaintiff claims Payne took "no steps"
during this visit to ensure Plaintiff was evaluated by a capable
professional who could determine a course of treatment for his condition.
But that claim is contradicted by the Complaint. Payne made a referral to an
optometrist — a specialist — to assess the complaint of eyeball pain. While
Payne's referral to an optometrist, instead of some other specialist, could
be characterized as negligent, it does not satisfy the standard of
deliberate indifference. As Plaintiff conceded during oral argument,
optometrists are health care professionals capable of identifying health
problems of the eye. Therefore, even if the optometrist was himself
incapable of treating Plaintiffs ultimate condition, Payne's good-faith
referral does not amount to deliberate [*7] indifference. Indeed, none of the
allegations against Payne demonstrate an act or omission "sufficiently
harmful to evidence deliberate indifference to serious medical needs." Estelle , 429 U.S. at 106 , 97 S.Ct. 285 .
In denying Payne's motion, the district court appears to have imputed
knowledge of Plaintiffs entire set of complaints to Payne (as well as to Dr.
Vadlamudi). But Plaintiffs most severe symptoms occurred after his contacts
with these Defendants. Further, Plaintiff must state a plausible
constitutional violation against each individual defendant — the collective
acts of defendants cannot be ascribed to each individual defendant. See Heyne , 655 F.3d at 564 ; Iqbal , 129 S.Ct. at 1948 . While the Mound
Correctional Facility may have been aware of Plaintiffs entire medical
history, there are no allegations that Payne was aware. In fact, the only
allegations

against Payne are the failure to "[o]btain and appreciate an appropriate
[medical] history;" "[r]efrain from diagnosing a calcium deposit;" and
ensure Plaintiff "is evaluated by a physician." [fn2] As was the case with
Dr. Vadlamudi, such allegations might support negligence, but not an Eighth
Amendment violation. Estelle , 429 U.S. at 105-06 , 97 S.Ct. 285 .
Immunity Under Michigan Law and the "Gross Negligence" Standard
Michigan law offers government employees immunity from tort liability
under certain circumstances. MICH. COMP. LAWS § 691.1407 (2). Defendants are
immune from liability if they acted or reasonably believed they acted within
the scope of their employment, engaged in the discharge of a government
function, and their "conduct [did] not amount to gross negligence that [was]
the proximate cause of the injury or damage." Id . Therefore, the question is
whether the Complaint contains "sufficient factual matter" allowing this
Court to draw a reasonable inference that Defendants committed gross
negligence, proximately causing Plaintiffs injuries. Iqbal , 129 S.Ct. at 1949 .
While the federal standard for deliberate indifference appears to be
similar to Michigan's standard for gross negligence, we have clarified that
they are different. See Jones , 625 F.3d at 947 . Specifically, deliberate
indifference is "akin to criminal recklessness," a very high standard of
culpability that exceeds gross negligence. Id. The Michigan Supreme Court
held gross negligence is "akin to willful, wanton, or reckless misconduct." Dedes v. Asch , 446 Mich. 99 , 521 N.W.2d 488 , 493 (1994). "[E]vidence of
ordinary negligence does not create a material question of fact concerning
gross negligence." Maiden v. Rozwood , 461 Mich. 109 , 597 N.W.2d 817 , 824 (1999). A valid claim for gross negligence requires "proof of conduct `so
reckless as to demonstrate a substantial lack of concern for whether an
injury results.'" Id . (citing MICH. COMP. LAWS § 691.1407 (7)(a)). For that
reason:
Simply alleging that an actor could have done more is insufficient
    under Michigan law, because, with the benefit of hind-sight, a claim
    can always be made that extra precautions could have influenced the
    result. However, saying [Defendants] could have taken additional
    precautions is insufficient to find ordinary negligence, much less
    recklessness. Even the most exacting standard of conduct, the
    negligence standard, does not require one to exhaust [*8] every
    conceivable precaution to be considered not negligent. The much less
    demanding standard of care — gross negligence — suggests, instead,
    almost a willful disregard of precautions or measures to attend to
    safety and a singular disregard for substantial risks. It is as
    though, if an objective observer watched the actor, he could
    conclude, reasonably, that the actor simply did not care about the
    safety or welfare of those in his charge.
Tarlea v. Crabtree , 263 Mich.App. 80 , 687 N.W.2d 333 , 339 (2004).
Defendants' Alleged Treatment Does Not Amount to Gross Negligence
It is improper to consider all the facts of this case together as a whole,
holding each

Defendant potentially liable for every alleged action, irrespective of their
individual involvement. When each Defendant's conduct is separately
analyzed, the allegations of gross negligence fail.
The Complaint makes clear that Dr. Vadlamudi examined Plaintiff ten months before his complaints of severe "headaches that cause[d] him to vomit."
During Dr. Vadlamudi's single contact with Plaintiff, Plaintiff had a
headache and left eye swelling and no other symptoms. This hardly forms the
basis for Dr. Vadlamudi to diagnose cancer. These minor symptoms cannot, as
a matter of law, support a claim for willful, wanton, or reckless treatment.
No objective observer could reasonably conclude Dr. Vadlamudi "simply did
not care about the safety or welfare of Plaintiff. Tarlea , 687 N.W.2d at 339 .
Similarly, there are no allegations that Payne demonstrated "a substantial
lack of concern for whether an injury result[ed]" to Plaintiff. Id. at 335 .
Payne examined Plaintiff for a small raised area over his left eye that
Payne believed to be a benign calcium deposit. During his second visit with
Payne, Plaintiff complained of eyeball pain. Had Payne done nothing at this
point, Plaintiffs claim might be more compelling. However, Payne did not
willfully disregard Plaintiffs safety. To the contrary, he referred him to
an optometrist. As with Dr. Vadlamudi, nothing leads to the conclusion that
Payne "simply did not care about [Plaintiffs] safety or welfare." Id. at
339 .
In their motion to the district court, Defendants relied on Jackson v. County of Saginaw , a Michigan Supreme Court case holding summary judgment
was appropriate on a prisoner's claim that medical staff failed to diagnose
his throat cancer. 458 Mich. 141 , 580 N.W.2d 870 (1998). The court below
declined to rely on Jackson because it was decided after discovery and not
during the pleadings stage. That distinction, while important, does not
dictate a different outcome. The lengthy allegations in the Complaint in
this case similarly cannot support a finding of gross negligence.
CONCLUSION
The district court understandably struggled with granting Defendants
immunity at an early stage in the litigation. However, as previously
emphasized, the purpose of qualified immunity is "to ensure that
insubstantial claims against government officials are resolved at the
earliest possible stage in litigation." See Rondigo, LLC v. Twp. of Richmond 641 F.3d 673 , 681 (6th Cir.2011) (citing Pearson , 555 U.S. at 231 , 129 S.Ct. 808 (holding the "driving force" behind qualified immunity [*9] is the
desire to resolve insubstantial claims against government officials "prior
to discovery")). For that reason, district courts in some cases "will be
able to establish entitlement to qualified immunity . . . even before
discovery." Hunter v. Bryant , 502 U.S. 224 , 234 , 112 S.Ct. 534 , 116 L.Ed.2d 589 (1991). This is one of those cases.
A thorough review of the pleadings reveals that Dr. Vadlamudi and nurse
Payne may have been negligent in diagnosing or treating Plaintiff. However,
neither negligent medical care, nor the delay in providing medical care, can
rise to the level of a constitutional violation absent specific allegations
of sufficiently harmful acts or omissions reflecting deliberate
indifference. Likewise, a valid claim for gross negligence under Michigan
law requires allegations of conduct "akin to willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct." Here, there are no such allegations, and judgment on the
pleadings is appropriate.
Accordingly, we REVERSE the district court's denial of immunity and remand
for entry of judgment in favor of Defendants Vadlamudi and Payne.
[fn1] The Complaint does not allege a specific constitutional violation; it
merely states "the gross negligence and breaches of care . . . resulted in a
violation of [Plaintiff's] constitutional rights set forth by 42 USC 1983 ."
As the district court recognized, if Plaintiff has a Section 1983 claim, it
necessarily falls under the "deliberate indifference" strain of the Supreme
Court's Eighth Amendment jurisprudence.
[fn2] In Count II of his Complaint, Plaintiff also alleges Payne "owed a
duty" to "[r]efrain from repeatedly prescribing and/or dispensing Tylenol .
. ." That allegation, however, is unsupported by the same Complaint. Payne
did not prescribe any treatment. The Tylenol was prescribed by "an
unidentified person" who examined Plaintiff three (says after Dr.
Vadlamudi's examination, as well as by nurse Smith who is not a party On
appeal.
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | BL

