[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, District of Columbia Circuit.
In re PEOPLE'S MOJAHEDIN ORGANIZATION OF IRAN, Petitioner.
No. 12-1118.
Argued May 8, 2012.
Decided June 1, 2012.
On Petition For A Writ of Mandamus To Enforce This Court's Mandate. [**29]
Before: HENDERSON and TATEL, Circuit Judges, and WILLIAMS, Senior Circuit
Judge.
Viet D. Dinh argued the cause for the petitioner. Nathan A. Sales, George W.
Hicks, Jr., Andrew L. Frey, Miriam R. Nemetz and Steven M. Schneebaum were
on brief.
Alan M. Dershowitz was on brief for the amici curiae Michael B. Mukasey et
al., in support of the petitioner.
Robert M. Loeb, Attorney, United States Department of Justice, argued the
cause for the respondent. Stuart F. Delery, Acting Assistant Attorney
General, Douglas N. Letter and Matthew M. Collette, Attorneys, were on
brief.
PER CURIAM:
Opinion for the Court filed PER CURIAM.
On July 16, 2010, we remanded this case to the Secretary (Secretary) of
the United States Department of State (State Department, State), concluding
that the Secretary had violated the due process rights of the petitioner,
the People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran (PMOI), by maintaining its
designation as a Foreign Terrorist Organization (FTO) under the
Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act (AEDPA, Act), 8 U.S.C. § 1189 . PMOI v. U.S. Dep't of State , 613 F.3d 220 , 230-31 (D.C.Cir.2010) ( PMOI III ). [fn1] We instructed the Secretary to allow PMOI to "review and rebut
the unclassified portions of the record on which [the Secretary] relied" in
denying PMOI's petition for revocation of its FTO listing and to "indicate
in her administrative summary which sources she regards as sufficiently
credible that she relies on them." Id. at 230 . It has been nearly two years
since our remand and the Secretary has yet to issue a reviewable ruling on
PMOI's petition. PMOI now seeks a writ of mandamus ordering the delisting of
PMOI or, alternatively, requiring the Secretary to make a decision on PMOI's
petition or our setting aside her FTO designation. For the reasons set forth
below, we order the Secretary to act on PMOI's petition not later than four
months from the issuance of this opinion; failing that, the petition for a
writ of mandamus setting aside the FTO designation will be granted.
I.
Under the AEDPA, the Secretary designates an entity a FTO if: (1) "the
organization is a foreign organization;" (2) "the organization engages in
terrorist activity . . . or terrorism . . . or retains the capability and
intent to engage in terrorist activity or terrorism;" and (3) "the terrorist
activity or terrorism of the organization threatens the security of United
States nationals or the national security of the United States." 8 U.S.C. § 1189 (a)(1). A FTO designation results in several "dire
consequences" for an organization, its members and other supporters. Nat'l Council of Resistance of Iran v. Dep't of State , 251 F.3d 192 , 200 (D.C.Cir.2001). Specifically, the Secretary of the United States Treasury
Department can freeze the FTO's assets, 8 U.S.C. § 1189 (a)(2)(C); FTO
members are barred from entering the United States, id . §
1182(a)(3)(B)(i)(IV) , (V); and anyone who knowingly provides "material
support or resources" to a FTO is subject to a fine and/ [***2] or imprisonment for
up to fifteen years, 18 U.S.C. § 2339B (a)(1).
As originally enacted, the AEDPA enabled the Secretary to maintain a FTO
designation for two years. See 8 U.S.C. § 1189 (a)(4)(A) (2003). At the end of
the two years, the Secretary either renewed the designation or allowed the
designation to lapse. Id . § 1189(a)(4)(B) (2003). In 2004, however, the
Congress lessened the Secretary's administrative burden and removed the
two-year limitation. See Intelligence Reform and Terrorist Prevention Act of
2004, Pub. L. No. 108-458 , § 7119 , 118 Stat. 3638 , 3801 (2004). Today, the
Secretary's designation no longer lapses; instead, every two years, a FTO
can file a [**30] [*834] petition for revocation with the Secretary to challenge its listing. See 8 U.S.C. § 1189 (a)(4)(B)(ii). To seek revocation, a FTO "must provide
evidence in that petition that the relevant circumstances . . . are
sufficiently different from the circumstances that were the basis for the
designation such that a revocation with respect to the organization is
warranted." Id . § 1189(a)(4)(B)(iii) .
The Act gives the Secretary 180 days to take action on a petition for
revocation. Id . § 1189(a)(4)(B)(iv)(I) ("Not later than 180 days after
receiving a petition for revocation . . ., the Secretary shall make a
determination as to such revocation."). While the Secretary may revoke a
designation at any time, the Act directs that she "shall" revoke a
designation if she finds either "the circumstances that were the basis for
the designation have changed in such a manner as to warrant revocation" or
the "national security of the United States warrants revocation." Id . §
1189(a)(6)(A) . In making her decision, the Secretary may rely on both
classified and unclassified information; the classified information "shall
not be subject to disclosure . . . except that such information may be
disclosed to a court ex parte and in camera for purposes of judicial
review." Id . § 1189(a)(4)(B)(iv)(II) .
If the Secretary denies a FTO's revocation petition, the organization can
seek review in this Court within thirty days of the denial. See id . §
1189(c)(1) . "In APA-like language," PMOI v. U.S. Dep't of State , 182 F.3d 17 , 22 (D.C.Cir.1999) ( PMOI I ), the Act instructs us to "hold
unlawful and set aside a designation, amended designation, or determination
in response to a petition for revocation" that we find:
(A) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise
    not in accordance with law;
(B) contrary to constitutional right, power, privilege, or
    immunity;
(C) in excess of statutory jurisdiction, authority, or limitation,
    or short of statutory right;
(D) lacking substantial support in the administrative record taken
    as a whole or in classified information submitted to the court under
    paragraph (2), or
(E) not in accord with the procedures required by law.
8 U.S.C. § 1189 (c)(3). This standard applies only to the first and second
FTO criteria — that the organization is foreign and that it engages in
terrorism or terrorist activity or retains the capability and intent to do
so. PMOI III , 613 F.3d at 223 . We have held that the third — that the
organization's activities threaten U.S. nationals or national security —
presents an unreviewable political question. Id . (citing PMOI I , 182 F.3d at 23 ).
Almost four years ago, on July 15, 2008, PMOI filed a petition for
revocation of the Secretary's 2003 designation. [fn2] In its petition, PMOI
argued that, although it had engaged [***3] in terrorist actions in the past,
circumstances had changed dramatically [**31] [*835] since 2003. PMOI III , 613 F.3d at 225 . PMOI asserted inter alia that it had
ceased its military campaign against the Iranian regime, renounced violence,
surrendered its arms to U.S. forces in Iraq, cooperated with U.S. officials
at Camp Ashraf (where its members operating in Iraq were consolidated),
shared intelligence with the U.S. government regarding Iran's nuclear
program and obtained "`protected person' status" for all PMOI members at
Camp Ashraf under the Fourth Geneva Convention. Id . [fn3]
On January 7, 2009, Secretary Condoleezza Rice denied PMOI's petition. See 74 Fed. Reg. 1273 , 1273-74 (Jan. 12, 2009). She found that: "In
considering the evidence as a whole, . . . [PMOI] ha[d] not shown that the
relevant circumstances [we]re sufficiently different from the circumstances
that were the basis for the 2003 []designation" and that "[a]s a
consequence, [PMOI] continues to be a foreign organization that engages in
terrorist activity . . . or terrorism . . . or retains the capability and
intent to" do so. PMOI III , 613 F.3d at 226 (quotation marks omitted). She
noted, however, that changed circumstances since 2003 warranted
reconsidering PMOI's FTO status in the future: "In light of the evidence
submitted by [PMOI] that it has renounced terrorism and the uncertainty
surrounding [PMOI's] presence in Iraq, the continued designation of [PMOI]
should be reexamined by the Secretary of State in the next two years even if
[PMOI] does not file a petition for revocation." Id . (quotation marks
omitted).
PMOI timely petitioned for review of the Secretary's decision, arguing
that the determination lacked substantial support in the administrative
record and that the Secretary's procedures did not provide it due process.
Oh July 16, 2010, we granted the petition, concluding that "the Secretary
failed to accord the PMOI the due process protections outlined in our
previous decisions." Id. at 222 . Specifically, we held that "due process
requires that the PMOI be notified of the unclassified material on which the
Secretary proposes to rely and [be given] an opportunity to respond to that
material before its re-designation." Id. at 228 (emphasis in original).
Because the Secretary had failed to allow PMOI access to the unclassified
material before she made her decision, we remanded the case to the Secretary
for her to provide PMOI that access. Id. at 230 . We also instructed the
Secretary to "indicate in her administrative summary which sources she
regards as sufficiently credible that she relies on them" in maintaining
PMOI's designation and to "explain to which part of section 1189(a)(1) (B)
the information she relies on relates." Id .
Since our July 2010 remand, the Secretary's progress has been — to say the
least — slow going. In an October 18, 2010 letter, the United States
Department of Justice (DOJ), acting on behalf of the Secretary, outlined its
procedure for complying with our remand. Pet'r's Ex. 1. DOJ explained that
PMOI had "received all of the unclassified material contained in the
administrative record to date" but that the State Department intended to
"update that administrative record with additional material relevant to the [***4] designation" before the Secretary rendered her decision. Id . Any
"[additional unclassified material," DOJ explained, was to be "provided to
[PMOI] by October 29, 2010." Id . On October 29, DOJ notified PMOI that State
had "begun the process of updating the administrative record with additional
material" [**32] [*836] relevant to PMOI's petition but that, at that time, there were "no
additional unclassified exhibits . . . to incorporate into the
administrative record." Pet'r's Ex. 2. It then requested that PMOI "make any
submission concerning the unclassified material previously provided . . . no
later than December 29, 2010." Id . PMOI timely complied, submitting
affidavits and other documentation supporting its delisting. Mandamus Pet.
11. Five months later, in April 2011, counsel for PMOI met with officials
from DOJ and State. Id . At that time, PMOI submitted additional information
in support of its cause — including a description of the allegedly
deteriorating conditions at Camp Ashraf and letters and affidavits of
support written by American and foreign leaders. Id . On May 20, 2011 (nearly
one year after our remand), DOJ sent PMOI's counsel ten additional documents
that it proposed to add to the administrative record. Pet'r's Ex. 3. On June
6, 2011, PMOI responded to each of the ten documents, maintaining that none
provided information not already in the administrative record. See Mandamus
Pet. 12.
On August 4, 2011, DOJ informed PMOI that "the process of declassifying
information intended for use in the consideration of the delisting petition
[was] complete" and that "State is working as quickly as possible on its
review of the designation." Pet'r's Ex. 4. On September 27, 2011, DOJ added
two documents to the record, Pet'r's Ex. 5, and, one week later, PMOI again
labeled the documents duplicative. Mandamus Pet. 12. Since October 2011, DOJ
has not asked PMOI for additional information, PMOI has not submitted any
and — most important — the Secretary has not taken final action on PMOI's
petition.
On February 27, 2012, PMOI petitioned us for the issuance of a writ of
mandamus.
II.
"Our consideration of any mandamus petition `starts from the premise that
issuance of the writ is an extraordinary remedy, reserved only for the most
transparent violations of a clear duty to act.'" In re Core Commc'ns, Inc. , 531 F.3d 849 , 855 (D.C.Cir.2008) (quoting In re Bluewater Network , 234 F.3d 1305 , 1315 (D.C.Cir.2000)). It is, of course, undisputed that the
Secretary has a "clear duty" to respond to this Court's remand. See id . In
the case of agency inaction, however, "we not only must satisfy ourselves
that there indeed exists such a duty, but that the agency has unreasonably
delayed the contemplated action." Bluewater , 234 F.3d at 1315 (quotation
marks omitted). "There is no per se rule as to how long is too long to wait
for agency action." In re Am. Rivers & Idaho Rivers United , 372 F.3d 413 , 419 (D.C.Cir.2004). Instead, we analyze a claim of unreasonable delay under
the "hexagonal" standard outlined in Telecomms. Research & Action Ctr. v. FCC , 750 F.2d 70 , 79 (D.C.Cir.1984) ( TRAC ):
(1) The time agencies take to make decisions must be governed by a
    rule of reason; (2) where Congress has provided a timetable or other
    indication of the speed with which it expects the [***5] agency to proceed
    in the enabling statute, that statutory scheme may supply content
    for this rule of reason; (3) delays that might be reasonable in the
    sphere of economic regulation are less tolerable when human health
    and welfare are at stake; (4) the court should consider the effect
    of expediting delayed action on agency activities of a higher or
    competing priority; (5) the court should also take into account the
    nature and extent of the interests prejudiced by delay; and (6) the
    court need not find any impropriety lurking behind agency lassitude
    in order [**33] [*837] to hold that agency action is `unreasonably delayed.'
In re United Mine Workers of Am. Int'l Union , 190 F.3d 545 , 549 (D.C.Cir.1999) (quoting TRAC , 750 F.2d at 80 ) (quotation marks omitted). In
each case, the central question is "whether the agency's delay is so
egregious as to warrant mandamus." Core Commc'ns , 531 F.3d at 855 (quotation
marks and citation omitted). We believe the Secretary's delay in acting on
PMOI's petition for revocation is egregious.
The AEDPA provides that the Secretary "shall make a determination" on a
petition of revocation "[n]ot later than 180 days after receiving [the]
petition." 8 U.S.C. § 1189 (a)(4)(B)(iv)(I). It has been twenty months
(approximately 600 days) since our remand and the Secretary has yet to make
a final, reviewable decision. While a violation of a statutory deadline
"does not, alone, justify judicial intervention," In re Barr Labs., Inc. , 930 F.2d 72 , 75 (D.C.Cir.1991), the Congress's timetable "may supply content
for th[e] rule of reason," TRAC , 750 F.2d at 80 — the "first and most
important" of the TRAC factors. Core Commc'ns , 531 F.3d at 855 . The
specificity and relative brevity of the 180-day deadline manifests the
Congress's intent that the Secretary act promptly on a revocation petition
and delist the organization if the criteria for the listing no longer exist.
The Secretary's twenty-month failure to act plainly frustrates the
congressional intent and cuts strongly in favor of granting PMOI's mandamus
petition. [fn4] The Secretary argues that because she "must make a decision
in this matter while carrying out duties of the most paramount importance,
addressing nearly constant emergencies," it would be "inappropriate" for us
to rule that she "is not acting quickly enough on a single matter." Opp'n to
Mandamus Pet. 14. But the Congress undoubtedly knew the enormous demands
placed upon the Secretary and nonetheless limited her time to act on a
petition for revocation to 180 days, 8 U.S.C. § 1189 (a)(4)(B)(iv)(I), and
included explicit provisions for our review, id . § 1189(c)(3) .
Additionally, the Secretary's failure to act insulates her decision from
our review under the AEDPA. As noted above, a FTO may, within thirty days,
seek review of the Secretary's denial of its petition for revocation in this
Court. See id . § 1189(c)(1) ("Not later than 30 days after publication in
the Federal Register of a designation, an amended designation, or a
determination in response to a petition for revocation, the designated
organization may seek judicial review in the District of Columbia
Circuit."). By failing to make a final decision on PMOI's petition, the
Secretary is able to maintain PMOI's designation while precluding PMOI from
seeking judicial [***6] review. That is, because of the Secretary's inaction, PMOI
is stuck in administrative limbo; it enjoys neither a favorable ruling on
its petition nor the opportunity to challenge an unfavorable one.
Decisive to us, however, is the fact that the Secretary has failed to heed
our remand. In In re Core Communications, Inc. , this Court highlighted the
difference between an agency that simply fails to "respond[] to [a]
request[] by [a] private part[y] to take administrative action" and one that
fails to "respond to our own remand." 531 F.3d at 856 . In that case, we
invalidated the Federal Communication Commission's (FCC) inter-carrier
compensation rules without vacating them because we "believ[ed] that there
was a `non-trivial likelihood' that the Commission would be [**34] [*838] able to state a valid legal basis for its rules" on remand. Id. at 861 (citation omitted). Six years later the rules remained in place and the FCC
had yet to articulate a "valid legal basis." Id . In response to the
petitioners' mandamus petition, we noted that, while the TRAC factors were
"not unimportant," id. at 855 , our overriding concern was that the agency's
delay "effectively nullified our determination that [its] interim rules are
invalid" and "insulated" the FCC's rules from "further review" by making it
impossible for the petitioners to "mount a challenge to the rules." Id. at
856 . We thus issued the wait vacating the rule, effective four months from
the date of the opinion's issuance "unless the court is notified that the
[FCC] has complied with our direction before that date." Id. at 861 .
Here too, the Secretary has not merely failed to meet the AEDPA's deadline
or respond to the requests of the petitioner or a third party. She is
failing to meet oar remand mandate. And, here too, the delay has the effect
of nullifying our decision while at the same time preventing PMOI from
seeking judicial review. Although our remand opinion did not specify a
deadline, neither did the remand order in Core Communications. We have been
given no sufficient reason why the Secretary, in the last 600 days, has not
been able to make a decision which the Congress gave her only 180 days to
make. If the Secretary wishes to maintain PMOI's FTO status, she can do so
by simply denying PMOI's petition.
What remains is the content of the writ to issue. PMOI asks us to "issue
an order directing the Secretary to revoke PMOI's FTO designation" or in the
alternative "requiring the Secretary to decide its revocation petition
within [thirty] days and specifying that, if she does not, the designation
shall be revoked." Mandamus Pet. 4. In light of the national security and
foreign policy concerns underlying the designation, we decline, at this
time, to revoke the FTO's designation. Instead, we order the Secretary to
either deny or grant PMOI's petition not later than four months from the
date this opinion issues. [fn5] Once she makes her decision, it is, of
course, entitled to great deference. See Islamic Am. Relief Agency v. Gonzales , 477 F.3d 728 , 734 (D.C.Cir.2007) ("[O]ur review — in [this] area
at the intersection of national security, foreign policy, and administrative
law — is extremely deferential."); Humanitarian [***7] Law Project v. Reno , 205 F.3d 1130 , 1137 (9th Cir.2000) (where a "regulation involves the conduct
of foreign affairs, we owe the executive branch even more latitude than in
the domestic context") (cited by Gonzales , 477 F.3d at 734 ). If she fails to
take action within that period, the petition for a writ of mandamus setting
aside the FTO designation will be granted.
So ordered.
[fn1] Because PMOI is the petitioner, we refer to PMOI and its associated
aliases and alter egos — including the National Council of Resistance of
Iran and the Majahedin-e Khalq Organization — as PMOI.
[fn2] The Secretary first designated the PMOI as a FTO in 1997 and made
successive designations in 1999, 2001 and 2003. See Designation of Foreign
Terrorist Organizations, 62 Fed. Reg. 52 , 650 (Oct. 8, 1997); Designation of
Foreign Terrorist Organizations, 64 Fed. Reg. 55 , 112 (Oct. 8, 1999);
Redesignation of Foreign Terrorist Organizations, 66 Fed. Reg. 51, 088, 51,
089 (Oct. 5, 2001); Redesignation of Foreign Terrorist Organizations, 68 Fed. Reg. 56 , 860 , 56 , 861 (Oct. 2, 2003). We have upheld the successive
designations. See PMOI I , 182 F.3d 17 , 25 ; PMOI v. Dep't of State , 327 F.3d 1238 , 1239 (D.C.Cir.2003) ( PMOI II ); Nat'l Council of Resistance of Iran v. Dep't of State , 373 F.3d 152 , 154 (D.C.Cir.2004).
[fn3] As a result of these changed circumstances, the United Kingdom removed
PMOI from its list of terrorist organizations in 2008 and the European Union
followed suit in 2009. See PMOI III , 613 F.3d at 225 .
[fn4] While the Act imposes a 180-day deadline to act, 8 U.S.C. § 1189 (a)(4)(B)(iv)(I), that deadline is not directly applicable to
this mandamus proceeding to enforce our own order of remand.
[fn5] Although PMOI urges us to impose a thirty-day deadline, it is clear
that obtaining a deadline is its foremost concern. Oral Arg. Tr. at 51. We
arrive at the four-month deadline in part because four months should allow
enough time for the completion of PMOI's move from Camp Ashraf, the
monitoring of which the Secretary claims will be exceptionally useful for
her determination, id. at 20-21 , as well as time to complete the process of
analysis, judgment and explication.
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | F.3d
** | U.S. App. D.C.
*** | BL

