[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, Seventh Circuit.
NORTHFIELD INSURANCE COMPANY and St. Paul Fire & Marine Insurance Company,
Plaintiffs-Appellees, v. CITY OF WAUKEGAN, et al., Defendants-Appellants.
Nos. 11-1215, 11-3729.
Argued May 24, 2012.
Decided November 21, 2012.
[EDITOR'S NOTE: This case is unpublished as indicated by the issuing court.]
Appeal from the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, Coar, J. [*1125] [EDITORS' NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINED HEADNOTES AND HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN
OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.]
[*1126] [EDITORS' NOTE: THIS PAGE CONTAINED HEADNOTES AND HEADNOTES ARE NOT AN
OFFICIAL PRODUCT OF THE COURT, THEREFORE THEY ARE NOT DISPLAYED.]
[*1127] Jeffrey M. Alperin (argued), Attorney, Tressler LLP, Bolingbrook, IL,
Michael J. Duffy, Attorney, Tressler LLP, Chicago, IL, Miguel Juarez
(argued), for Plaintiffs-Appellees.
Paulette A. Petretti (argued), Attorney, Scariano, Himes & Petrarca,
Chicago, IL, for Defendants-Appellants.
Before CUDAHY, KANNE, and HAMILTON, Circuit Judges.
KANNE, Circuit Judge.
Northfield Insurance Company and St. Paul Fire & Marine Insurance Company
(collectively, the "insurers") provided law enforcement liability coverage
to the city of Waukegan, Illinois, and its employees acting within the scope
of employment. In 2009, Bennie Starks filed a civil rights suit against the
city and a handful of current and former Waukegan police officers, among
others, alleging that each played a role in his decades-old wrongful
conviction. In response, the insurers filed an eight-count declaratory
judgment action seeking a declaration that they have no duty to defend or
indemnify the city or employees. The district court granted summary judgment
in favor of the insurers, reasoning that the disputed insurance policies did
not cover the city at the time of the alleged wrongdoing. We affirm.
I. BACKGROUND
The underlying facts are undisputed. Northfield Insurance Company issued
two comprehensive general liability policies to Waukegan, effective November
1, 1991, to November 1, 1995. [fn1] The two Northfield policies at issue
contained a law enforcement liability provision, which provided that the
insurer would cover all sums for which the city "shall be obligated to pay
by reason of errors, omissions or negligent acts arising out of the
performance of the Assured's duties while acting as a law enforcement
official or officer in the regular course of public employment." From
November 1, 2006, to November 1, 2009, the city maintained a similar policy
with St. Paul Fire & Marine Insurance Company. Like the Northfield policy,
the St. Paul Fire policy contained a law enforcement liability provision
which provided coverage for "wrongful act[s] . . . committed while
conducting law enforcement activities or operations." Both policies covered
the city on an "occurrence basis." And, the policies defined "occurrence"
and "personal injury" to include false arrest, false imprisonment, malicious
prosecution, and other civil rights violations. Both insurers also provided
coverage to the city's officers and officials acting within the scope of
their employment. Evidently, other insurance carriers provided coverage
during the intervening years, and those carriers' duties to defend are being
litigated in at least two separate declaratory judgment actions.
In January 2009, Bennie Starks filed the underlying civil suit, which the
city quickly tendered to Northfield and St. Paul Fire for a defense. Broadly
speaking, Starks alleges that the city and several police officers, among
others, unlawfully [**2] conspired to convict him of crimes he did not commit. In
his complaint, Starks primarily [*1128] seeks damages for false arrest and imprisonment, wrongful conviction, denial
of due process, and malicious prosecution. The background of his suit is as
follows. In January 1986, a woman reported to the Waukegan police that she
had been attacked and raped. Officers quickly arrested Starks, who was then
charged and convicted of three counts of sexual assault. Twenty years into
his sixty-year sentence, newly surfaced DNA evidence raised serious doubts
about his guilt, and on March 23, 2006, the Illinois Appellate Court
reversed Starks's conviction and ordered a new trial. On January 20, 2007,
the Illinois Appellate Court issued the related mandate returning
jurisdiction to the trial court. At the time Starks's conviction was
overturned, state prosecutors moved to re-prosecute him. But on May 15,
2012, one week before oral argument in this appeal, the state trial court
entered a nolle prosequi order effectively terminating any further criminal
proceedings against him. [fn2]
On November 25, 2009, Northfield and St. Paul Fire filed an eight-count
declaratory judgment action, 28 U.S.C. § 2201 , seeking a declaration that it
has no duty to defend or indemnify the appellants for the claims made in
Starks's suit. The action was initially docketed with Judge Coar. In June
2010, the district court denied the appellants' motion to stay the
proceedings pending resolution of Starks's criminal case, and in December
2010, it entered summary judgment in favor of the insurers. The appellants
filed a timely appeal of both decisions, which we docketed as 11-1215. On
appeal, we issued a limited remand so the district court could clearly spell
out the terms of the declaratory relief. Northfield Ins. Co. v. City of Waukegan , No. 11-1215 , slip op. (7th Cir. Aug. 23, 2011). In the interim,
Judge Coar retired, and the case was reassigned to Judge Norgle, who
promptly entered a Rule 58(a) judgment in favor of the insurers. The
appellants filed a timely appeal of that ruling, which we docketed as 11-3729 . On December 13, 2011, we consolidated the two appeals for purposes
of briefing and disposition.
II. ANALYSIS
On appeal, the appellants argue the district court erred by (1) granting
summary judgment in favor of the insurers; (2) denying their motion to stay
the declaratory judgment action pending resolution of Starks's criminal
proceeding; and (3) granting overbroad declaratory relief. We take each
argument individually.
A. Summary Judgment
We review grants of summary judgment de novo , viewing the record in the
light most favorable to the appellants and drawing all reasonable inferences
in their favor. Draper v. Martin , 664 F.3d 1110 , 1113 (7th Cir.2011).
Summary judgment is appropriate when "the movant shows that there is no
genuine dispute as to any material fact and the movant is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law." Fed.R.Civ.P. 56 (a).
The question before us is whether the allegations in Starks's complaint
trigger Northfield's or St. Paul Fire's duty to defend. To answer that
question, we [*1129] look to Illinois law, which the parties agree [**3] governs this dispute. Nat'l Cos. Co. v. McFatridge , 604 F.3d 335 , 338 (7th Cir.2010). Under Illinois
law, we compare the allegations in Starks's complaint with the express
language in the insurance policy to determine whether an insurer's duty to
defend has been triggered. Gen. Agents Ins. Co. of Am. v. Midwest Sporting Goods Co. , 215 IU.2d 146, 293 Ill.Dec. 594, 828 N.E.2d 1092 , 1098 (2005).
"If the underlying complaint alleges facts within or potentially within
policy coverage, an insurer is obligated to defend its insured even if the
allegations are groundless, false or fraudulent." Id.; accord CMK Dev. Corp. v. W. Bend Mut. Ins. Co. , 395 Ill.App.3d 830 , 335 Ill.Dec. 91 , 917 N.E.2d 1155 , 1163 (2009) (holding the duty to defend is "much broader"
than the duty to indemnify). An insurer may justifiably refuse to defend the
insured only if "it is clear from the face of the underlying complaint[]
that the allegations fail to state facts which bring the case within, or
potentially within, the policy's coverage." U.S. Fid. & Guar. Co. v. Wilkin Insulation Co. , 144 Ill.2d 64 , 161 Ill.Dec. 280 , 578 N.E.2d 926 , 930 (1991); accord Lagestee-Mulder, Inc. v. Consol. Ins. Co. , 682 F.3d 1054 , 1056 (7th
Cir.2012). One such instance where an insurer can justifiably refuse
coverage is when the underlying allegations accrue outside of the relevant
policy period. Am. Safety Cas. Ins. Co. v. City of Waukegan, Ill. , 678 F.3d 475 , 477-79 (7th Cir.2012); McFatridge , 604 F.3d at 344 . Here, the
insurers have no duty to defend if Starks's allegations occurred outside of
the policy periods.
With that in mind, we turn to Starks's complaint, which we liberally
construe in favor of the appellants. Wilkin Insulation Co. , 161 Ill.Dec. 280 , 578 N.E.2d at 930 . Paragraph thirty-nine of the complaint
perhaps best summarizes Starks's claims. There, he alleges that he was
deprived of "his rights to be free from unreasonable arrest and seizure,
from wrongful confinement and imprisonment, and his rights to access to the
Courts and to a fair and impartial trial, as protected by the First , Fourth , Fifth , Sixth , Eighth , and Fourteenth Amendments ." (Starks Compl. at 6-7.)
From that, we infer that Starks is asserting claims for malicious
prosecution, wrongful conviction, denial of due process, and false arrest
and imprisonment, the last of which is an overlapping theory of relief, Wallace v. Kato , 549 U.S. 384 , 388 , 127 S.Ct. 1091 , 166 L.Ed.2d 973 (2007).
Starks's complaint also suggests that he intends to bring an intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED) claim once the criminal prosecution
against him terminates. (Starks Compl. at 12 n. 3.) Because we can imagine
an IIED claim potentially falling within the policy terms, we will assume
that Starks fully intends to submit such a claim. See Wilkin Insulation Co. , 161 Ill.Dec. 280 , 578 N.E.2d at 930 (insurer must defend all claims
potentially within coverage).
We pause momentarily to reject the appellants' suggestion that Starks
could have or plans to assert claims for some unknown torts grounded in the
First and Eighth Amendments. Potential theories of recovery might include a
deprivation of his freedom of speech or religion or some type of deliberate
indifference claim under the Eighth Amendment. The appellants argue that
because Starks referenced the First and Eighth Amendments without specifying
theories of relief, we should wait to definitively determine whether the
insurers have a duty to defend until Starks has [**4] fully outlined his claims.
Although we acknowledge that "the duty to defend does not require that the
complaint allege or use language affirmatively bringing the claims within
the scope of the policy," Am. Econ. Ins. Co. v. Holabird & Root , 382 Ill.App.3d 1017 , 320 Ill.Dec. 97 , 886 N.E.2d 1166 , 1171 (2008), we [*1130] will not cobble together a more compelling or comprehensive complaint than
what is written or what can be inferred. After all, we are charged with
comparing the underlying complaint, inferences, and other known facts to the
insurance policy, not some hypothetical or hoped-for version. Conn. Indem. Co. v. DER Travel Serv., Inc. , 328 F.3d 347 , 350-51 (7th Cir.2003) (stating
"it is the actual complaint, not some hypothetical version, that must be
considered"). Here, there are no supporting allegations even hinting at a First or Eighth Amendment claim. Starks never alleges that his right to free
speech or religion was suppressed, nor does he allege that he was subjected
to cruel or unusual punishment or any type of deliberate indifference.
Moreover, it is difficult to imagine a scenario where the city and its
police officers are responsible for these types of offenses rather than
state-prison authorities. Ultimately, nothing in the complaint or any
generous inference we may grant the appellants suggests that Starks has a
claim under the First or Eighth Amendments .
We now turn to the three discrete allegations Starks makes in his
complaint. We analyze each individually to determine whether there is a duty
to defend.
1. False Arrest and Imprisonment
Starks first alleges that he was falsely arrested and imprisoned for a
crime he did not commit. We need not spend much time discussing the
insurers' duty to defend these claims because McFatridge and American Safety are directly on point. Generally, Starks's false arrest and imprisonment
claims imply that he was detained without legal process. Wallace , 549 U.S. at 389 , 127 S.Ct. 1091 . As such, "[t]he false imprisonment ends,
and the claim accrues when he is held pursuant to a warrant or other
judicially issued process." McFatridge , 604 F.3d at 344 . Here, Starks was
arrested (presumably subject to an arrest warrant, although the record on
this point is unclear) and duly convicted in 1986. To the extent Starks's
complaint makes out a false arrest and imprisonment claim, that offense
accrued sometime in 1986 prior to his conviction. See id . Because neither
the Northfield nor the St. Paul Fire policies were in effect in 1986, the
insurers have no duty to defend against these claims.
2. Malicious Prosecution, Wrongful Conviction, and Denial of Due Process
Starks next alleges that he was the victim of malicious prosecution,
wrongful prosecution, and a denial of due process, all of which contest the
fairness of his prosecution. See Brooks v. Ross , 578 F.3d 574 , 579 (7th
Cir.2009). To succeed on such claims, Starks must prove that he was
exonerated; until then, he has no claim. Am. Safety , 678 F.3d at 478 . With
that in mind, we held in McFatridge and American Safety that the trigger
date for a malicious prosecution claim occurs on the day of exoneration. See Am. Safety , 678 F.3d at 478 ("[U]nder Illinois law, the issuer of the policy
in force on the date a convict is exonerated must defend [**5] and indemnify an
insured whose law-enforcement personnel violate the Constitution (or state
law) in the process of securing a criminal conviction.").
Here, the district court was presented with a complaint that contains
slight inconsistencies as to the date of exoneration. Starks initially
alleges that the Illinois Appellate Court reversed his conviction on March
23, 2006, (Starks Compl. at 5), although that court did not issue the
related mandate returning jurisdiction to the trial court until January 20,
2007. ( Id. at 6 ). Momentarily ignoring [*1131] the importance of either date, both of these allegations imply that Starks
was fully exonerated following action by the Illinois Appellate Court.
Alternatively, the complaint alleges that the state's attorney sought to
re-prosecute Starks even after the Illinois Appellate Court overturned his
conviction. ( Id. at 6 ; n.1.) This allegation, of course, suggests that
neither action by the Illinois Appellate Court exonerated Starks, which
means that his malicious prosecution claim has not yet ripened. See Am. Safety , 678 F.3d at 478 . Notwithstanding that inconsistency, we can
definitively say that Starks's malicious prosecution (and related)
allegations do not trigger the two Northfield policies in effect from
November 1, 1991, to November 1, 1995. Because Starks was not exonerated
during that policy period, Northfield has no duty to defend his malicious
prosecution claims.
That leaves us with the St. Paul Fire policy, effective November 1, 2006,
to November 1, 2009. Because we are charged with liberally construing the
complaint and policy in favor of the appellants, we will evaluate the two
divergent lines of allegations in Starks's complaint, while granting all
reasonable inferences to the appellants. We take the easy strain first and
assume as true the allegation that Starks has not yet been exonerated. If
true, then Starks's claim for malicious prosecution has not ripened. In
other words, Starks was not exonerated during St. Paul Fire's policy period,
and thus, the insurer has no duty to defend in this scenario. The other line
of allegations suggests that Starks was fully exonerated once the Illinois
Appellate Court vacated his conviction. If true, the question for us is
which date applies: the date of the reversal or the date of the mandate.
This is also a relatively easy question because the law in Illinois clearly
provides that the effective date of an Illinois Appellate Court decision is
the date of judgment, not the date the mandate was issued. PSL Realty Co. v. Granite Inv. Co. , 86 U1.2d 291, 56 Ill.Dec. 368, 427 N.E.2d 563 , 570 (1981)
("The date of the issuance of the mandate does not control the effective
date of the appellate court judgment."); Rickey v. Riera , 332 Ill.App.3d 532 , 266 Ill.Dec. 223 , 774 N.E.2d 1 , 10 (2001). Thus, even if
we were to read the complaint to suggest that Starks was fully exonerated,
the effective date of that exoneration is March 23, 2006, which falls
outside of St. Paul Fire's coverage.
This is not the end of the discussion, however. One week before oral
argument in this appeal, the state trial court issued a nolle prosequi order
in Starks's criminal case, which effectively [**6] terminated any further
prosecution against him. At oral argument, the appellants argued that the nolle prosequi is not a final disposition, and instead, it is a procedure
that reverts the matter back to the same condition that existed before the
commencement of the prosecution. In other words, the appellants read the nolle prosequi order as reverting the date of exoneration back to January
20, 2007, the date the mandate was issued. We have already rejected the
notion that the mandate is the effective date of disposition and thus,
exoneration. But even if that were not the case, the appellants have
mischaracterized the effect of a nolle prosequi. For civil malicious
prosecution matters in Illinois, "a criminal proceeding has been terminated
in favor of the accused when a prosecutor formally abandons the proceeding
via a nolle prosequi unless the abandonment is for reasons not indicative of
the innocence of the accused." Swick v. Liautaud , 169 Ill.2d 504 , 215 Ill.Dec. 98 , 662 N.E.2d 1238 , 1242-43 (1996). The Swick rule leaves two
possibilities for Starks and the appellants. If [*1132] the prosecution was abandoned for reasons of Starks's innocence, then May
15, 2012, is the trigger date for his malicious prosecution claim. On the
other hand, if the prosecutors dropped Starks's case for some reason not
indicative of innocence — such as the unavailability of a key witness — then
the nolle prosequi order would not have terminated the prosecution in
Starks's favor, leaving Starks yet to be exonerated. We need not decide
whether the nolle prosequi order in this case is indicative of innocence
because in either scenario, the malicious prosecution occurrence falls
outside of St. Paul Fire's policy.
We must address one more issue before examining Starks's final allegation.
Specifically, the insurers invite us to reconsider our holdings in McFatridge and American Safety by asserting that those cases interpreting
Illinois law contradict the vast majority of other jurisdictions. As we have
already recounted, those cases hold that the trigger date for a malicious
prosecution claim in Illinois is the date of exoneration. See Am. Safety , 678 F.3d at 478 ; McFatridge , 604 F.3d at 344 . But the overwhelming majority
of jurisdictions to address this issue consider the trigger date to be the
date of the underlying criminal charges or conviction. Am. Safety , 678 F.3d at 479 (collecting cases). Although we acknowledge Illinois's
minority status, we have recently found that the one Illinois Appellate
Court opinion on point plainly holds that the trigger date for a malicious
prosecution claim is the date of exoneration. Id. at 478-79 ( citing Sec. Mut. Cas. Co. v. Harbor Ins. Co. , 65 Ill. App.3d 198 , 21 Ill.Dec. 707 , 382 N.E.2d 1 (1978), rev'd on other grounds , 77 Ill.2d 446 , 34 Ill.Dec. 167 , 397 N.E.2d 839 (1979)). As a federal court interpreting Illinois law, we are
not entitled to single-handedly modify the Illinois rule without some new
direction from the state. Moreover, we fully analyzed the Illinois rule and
the majority rule in American Safety not more than a few months ago, and we
see no need to repeat that discussion here. Suffice it to say, we decline to
disrupt our own precedent or that of the Illinois Appellate Court, see Blood v. [**7] VH-1 Music First , 668 F.3d 543 , 546 (7th Cir.2012) (permitting federal
courts to give "proper regard" to the state's lower courts). Accordingly, we
apply the Illinois trigger rule for civil claims of malicious prosecution.
3. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
Finally, Starks suggests that he plans to bring an IIED claim if and when
he is fully exonerated. Because Illinois requires an insurer to defend all
claims that are potentially within coverage, Wilkin Insulation Co. , 161 Ill.Dec. 280 , 578 N.E.2d at 930 , we assume that Starks will eventually
bring this claim. That said, we must examine a potential IIED claim to
determine whether it occurred during the policy periods.
Generally, "the final element of the tort marks the occurrence" or trigger
date, Am. Safety , 678 F.3d at 480 , and IIED claims are no different. But
here, the appellants change course and argue that the injuries stemming from
the IIED are continuous, and thus, we should apply a continuous trigger to
that potential claim. See Belleville Toyota, Inc. v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. , 199 Ill.2d 325 , 264 Ill.Dec. 283 , 770 N.E.2d 177 , 190 (2002)
("[W]here a tort involves a continuing or repeated injury, the limitations
period does not begin to run until the date of the last injury or the date
the tortious acts cease."). Thus, under the appellants' continuous-trigger
theory, any injuries Starks suffered from the IIED potentially trigger both
Northfield's and St. Paul Fire's policies. We disagree.
The appellants conflate continuing harmful acts with the continuing
effects of one harmful act. "A continuing violation or tort is occasioned by
continuing unlawful acts and conduct, not by continual ill effects from an
initial violation." Feltmeier v. Feltmeier , 207 Ill.2d 263 , 278 Ill.Dec. 228 , 798 N.E.2d 75 , 85 (2003). To differentiate these concepts,
Illinois courts must determine whether a "single overt act" is the cause of
subsequent damages or whether the accused continually perpetrated harmful
acts. Id .
In this case, Starks's complaint alleges potentially outrageous conduct
committed by prosecutors, police officers, and crime-lab technicians, during
his 1986 trial and the preparation for that trial. The complaint does not
allege that Starks faced outrageous conduct at any other time. Accordingly,
whether it is ultimately determined that Starks' IIED claim accrued when he
was indicted or when he was exonerated, his claim still occurred outside the
scope of both Northfield's and St. Paul Fire's policies, and neither insurer
is liable. Compare Brooks , 578 F.3d at 579 (Illinois IIED claim based on
allegations related to fairness of prosecution accrued when plaintiff was
indicted, not when he was acquitted), with Parish v. City of Elkhart , 614 F.3d 677 , 683-84 (7th Cir.2010) (under Indiana law, IIED claim was not
completed prior to conviction and would have impugned plaintiffs' conviction
under Heck v. Humphrey , 512 U.S. 477 , 114 S.Ct. 2364 , 129 L.Ed.2d 383 (1994), so claim accrued upon plaintiffs exoneration), and Lieberman v. Liberty Healthcare Corp. , 408 Ill.App.3d 1102 , 350 Ill.Dec. 593 , 948 N.E.2d 1100 , 1107-08 (2011) (under Illinois law, rule of Heck v. Humphrey applies to claims for medical or legal malpractice that directly
attack legality of plaintiffs confinement).
B. Motion to Stay Proceedings
The appellants next claim that the district court erred by refusing to [**8] stay the declaratory judgment proceedings until Starks's criminal case
ended. The Declaratory Judgment Act by its own terms grants district courts
discretion in determining whether to entertain such an action. 28 U.S.C. § 2201 (a) (providing that the district court " may declare the
rights and other legal relations of any interested party seeking such
declaration" (emphasis added)). Naturally, we review a denial to stay
proceedings for an abuse of discretion. See Envision Healthcare, Inc. v. Preferred One Ins. Co. , 604 F.3d 983 , 985-86 (7th Cir.2010) ("[A] district
court is authorized, in the sound exercise of its discretion, to stay or to
dismiss an action seeking a declaratory judgment."). Here, the appellants
make a handful of arguments faulting the district court for refusing to
grant its motion to stay proceedings, none of which we find persuasive.
Principally, the appellants claim that there are too many uncertain future
events to allow the district court to effectively adjudicate the insurers'
obligations. But, as our preceding analysis of Starks's complaint suggests,
we disagree. The complaint sets forth specific claims for false arrest and
imprisonment and the various claims for malicious prosecution. Starks also
intimates that he intends to bring an IIED claim. All of those claims have
discrete trigger points that allowed the district court to determine whether
the insurers have a duty to defend. And no future actions, save Starks's
exoneration — which brings his claim even farther outside of the insurers'
policies — change that analysis. Any delay in adjudicating the insurers'
duty to defend costs the insurers much-needed certainty. See Am. Safety , 678 F.3d at 480 (A long tail of insurance coverage affects insurers' ability
to adjust [*1134] prices to reflect previously incurred risk.). Thus, we find that the
district court rightly exercised its discretion in denying the appellants'
motion to stay.
The appellants also point out that they sent the insurers a letter
proposing that the parties file a joint motion to stay proceedings.
Apparently, this letter is evidence of the appellants' willingness to back
away from their immediate demand for coverage and a defense. And without a
demand for coverage, the district court has no live controversy to
adjudicate. The appellants have mischaracterized the contents of the letter.
In fact, this letter never suggests that the appellants intend to withdraw
their demand for coverage. Rather, the letter simply requested that both
parties file a joint motion to stay the proceedings. As long as a live
controversy exists between the parties, the district court has discretion to
declare the rights of the parties. 28 U.S.C. § 2201 (a); see also Cincinnati Cos. v. W. Am. Ins. Co. , 183 Ill.2d 317 , 233 Ill.Dec. 649 , 701 N.E.2d 499 , 504 (1998) ("If, after being contacted, the insured indicates that it
desires the insurer's assistance, then the insurer's duty to defend
continues.").
Finally, the appellants argue that the district court must have abused its
discretion because two other courts facing the same underlying civil
complaint stayed proceedings pending the resolution of Starks's criminal
case. At the threshold, [**9] we have already acknowledged that district courts
have wide discretion in adjudicating declaratory judgment actions and
motions to stay proceedings. It is no surprise that district judges vested
with this discretion may come to different conclusions. More than that, the
two cases the appellants cite are inapposite. For example, Judge Kocoras
granted a stay in TIG Ins. Co. v. City of Waukegan , No. 10-cv-1466 (N.D.Ill.
Apr. 28, 2010), presumably because TIG Insurance was on risk from November
1, 1985, to November 1, 1987. Our preceding trigger analysis suggests that
Starks's claim for false imprisonment may have ripened in 1986, potentially
implicating TIG's duty to defend. Similarly, Judge Gettleman stayed the
proceedings in Westport Ins. Co. v. City of Waukegan , No. 10-cv-263 (N.D.Ill. Apr. 28, 2010). Unlike this case, the insurer there was on risk
under numerous policies stretching from November 1, 1987, to November 1,
2000. Given the greater complexity, it again is no surprise that the
district court in that case exercised its discretion to stay the
proceedings. The larger point, however, is that district courts maintain
wide discretion in adjudicating these matters, and evidence of conflicting
decisions without anything more is not evidence that a judge abused that
discretion. In sum, we find that the district court was well within its
discretion in denying the appellants' motion to stay.
C. Declaratory Relief
Finally, the appellants claim that Judge Norgle's declaratory relief order
is over-broad because it supposedly preempts "any and all insurance
coverage." In other words, the appellants claim that Judge Norgle's order
prohibits all future claims that may have arisen during the policy period,
not just those in Starks's complaint. This argument misunderstands Judge
Norgle's order. In his order for declaratory relief, Judge Norgle plainly
states, "Plaintiffs . . . owe no duty to defend or indemnify Defendants . .
. concerning claims made against them in the case of Starks v. City of Waukegan , No. 09-CV-348 (N.D.Ill. filed Jan. 20, 2009)." Instead of limiting
all potential claims, as the appellants suggest, Judge Norgle's order simply
precludes coverage of the claims Starks made in his 2009 civil suit.
[*1135]
III. CONCLUSION
For the foregoing reasons, we AFFIRM the district court's grant of summary
judgment in favor of Northfield and St. Paul Fire.
[fn1] Northfield issued a third policy covering November 1, 1995, to
November 1, 1997, but the parties agree that this policy is not at issue.
[fn2] On the eve of oral argument, the insurers asked us to strike the
appellants' motion to cite supplemental authority, which included a citation
to and analysis of the trial court's nolle prosequi order. The insurers
argue that the appellants' motion was supplemental evidence that was not
before the district court rather than supplemental authority. Semantics
aside, we take judicial notice of the trial court's order and deny the
insurers' motion to strike. See In re Salem , 465 F.3d 767 , 771 (7th
Cir.2006) (taking judicial notice of state-court dockets and opinions).
HAMILTON, Circuit Judge, concurring.
I join the court's opinion, which accurately applies the available
precedents of our court and the Illinois courts to the questions before us.
I write separately to make two observations: one on the handling of the
Starks case in particular and another on the handling of wrongful conviction
claims in general.
First, we have been told that two additional cases are pending in the
Northern District of Illinois concerning the City of Waukegan's liability
insurance coverage for the wrongful conviction claims asserted by Bennie
Starks. The other cases involve other insurers with policies covering
different time periods going back more than twenty years. The cases have
been stayed pending progress in Starks' criminal [**10] case, but that case is now
resolved and presumably the stays will soon be lifted. For the reasons
explained in Judge Kanne's opinion for the court, I am confident that the
two insurers in this case are not required to defend or indemnify the city
against these claims. As long as the city has kept liability insurance in
place over the decades, though, it is highly likely that the city is
entitled to a defense and indemnity from at least one insurer, perhaps from
more than one.
I respect the district court's broad discretion in managing related cases,
but keeping separate these cases contesting insurance coverage for the very
same underlying claims seems to be an invitation for duplicative litigation
and inconsistent results. The city is in a position that is the mirror image
of an interpleader plaintiff — rather than having money or property that it
knows it should pay to someone in a group of competing claimants, the city
knows that it should be paid by someone among the various insurers. The
insurers should resolve the coverage issues among themselves. If and when
the stayed cases come back to life, I hope the district judges will
reconsider whether they should remain separate.
Second, at a more general level, I note the complexity and confusion of
the related timing questions — questions including ripeness, statutes of
limitations, and insurance coverage — that are necessarily raised by the
claims brought by people like Starks who are wrongfully convicted and spend
years in prison. Issues relating to timing usually focus on either the
beginning of the criminal process or the end. Was the claim ripe and did the
statute-of-limitations clock begin to run at the time of the wrongful
conviction and related events? Or was the claim ripe and did the
statute-of-limitations clock begin to run only when the wrongful conviction
was set aside?
With either answer, there can be a devil in the details. If the focus is
on the beginning of the process, do we focus on the date of wrongful conduct
by law enforcement, the date of conviction, the date of affirmance on direct
appeal, or other events? (Anyone who wants to see how tricky even the last
two possibilities can be should study the extensive federal case law on when
the one-year clock for filing a federal habeas corpus petition runs under 28 U.S.C. § 2244 (d). See, e.g., Evans v. Chavis , 546 U.S. 189 , 126 S.Ct. 846 , 163 L.Ed.2d 684 (2006); Carey v. Saffold , 536 U.S. 214 , 122 S.Ct. 2134 , 153 L.Ed.2d 260 (2002).) If the focus is on the exoneration
end of the process, do we focus on the date that a conviction is first
vacated, the date that a court issues its mandate, or, in case of a remand
or writ of habeas corpus [*1136] allowing a new trial, when the reopened proceedings are concluded in favor
of the accused?
There is plenty of room for confusion and mutual inconsistency in the ways
courts handle these different timing issues in these wrongful conviction
cases, not to mention malleability of arguments and outcomes. In any
particular case, current Illinois law allows capable counsel to make
arguments to justify nearly any resolution that would benefit their client —
whether the client is the wrongfully convicted plaintiff, [**11] the government, or
the insurer. Only the Illinois courts can untangle these knots to provide
justice, consistency, and predictability. For example, the city here
suggested at oral argument that the statute of limitations might have run on
Starks' claims before he could even bring them. The convoluted theory seems
to be that Starks was actually exonerated back in 2007 when the Illinois
Appellate Court issued its mandate, but that his claims did not accrue until
the criminal prosecution ended with the 2012 nolle prosequi. Under this
theory, the 2012 nolle prosequi somehow retroactively started the
statute-of-limitations clock running back in 2007, effectively barring
Starks' claims before they accrued and could be brought. The fact that such
an argument could be made with a straight face is a symptom of a need for
clarification of Illinois law on these timing issues.
The argument also highlights a related point — the challenge of figuring
out the scope of an insurer's duty to defend claims in which the plaintiffs
and defendants in the underlying claims try to cope with the uncertainty.
Even if the plaintiff in the underlying case brings a claim that is clearly
not yet ripe or is clearly barred by the statute of limitations, an insurer
may still have a duty to defend its insured against the claim. See Valley Forge Ins. Co. v. Swiderski Electronics, Inc. , 223 Ill.2d 352 , 307 Ill Dec. 653 , 860 N.E.2d 307 , 315 (2006) (insurer is obligated to defend
"even if the allegations are groundless, false, or fraudulent, and even if
only one of several theories of recovery alleged in the complaint falls
within the potential coverage of the policy").
The choice between imposing the duty to defend on the insurer at the time
of the original prosecution and conviction and the insurer at the time of
the later exoneration is a difficult one. In National Casualty Co. v. McFatridge , 604 F.3d 335 (7th Cir.2010), and American Safety Casualty Ins. Co. v. City of Waukegan , 678 F.3d 475 (7th Cir.2012), we held that the
trigger date for a malicious prosecution claim under Illinois law was the
day of exoneration. (This case shows that "exoneration" can be a rather
slippery concept, but I will leave those nuances aside for now.) If the
trigger date is the original conviction, then the insurer from that time
faces a decades-long liability "tail." If the trigger date is the day of
final official exoneration, then insurability can become a serious problem
because of the prospect of a "known loss." The city seeking insurance may be
able to see looming liability well in advance, and an insurer may be able to
demand disclosures about pending cases. Suppose the City of Waukegan tried
to buy liability insurance for the Starks case after the DNA tests that led
to Starks' exoneration, or even after the March 23, 2006 appellate opinion
had been issued. See People v. Starks , 365 Ill.App.3d 592 , 302 Ill.Dec. 769 , 850 N.E.2d 206 , 211 (2006). Under McFatridge and American Safety , insurers
from earlier periods probably would be off the hook. But if there were full
disclosure of relevant facts after the DNA test or the appellate opinion,
then insurance for a case like the Starks case could be prohibitively
expensive [**12] and essentially not available at all. [*1137]
The insurers here have invited us to reconsider McFatridge and National Casualty. There are good reasons why we should not. Our opinions in those
cases are consistent with the relevant Illinois precedent, and this is a
question of state law. If the rule we adopted in those cases needs to be
reconsidered, it should be done by the Illinois courts. If the Illinois
courts do reconsider, I hope they will do so with an eye toward the full
range of issues that can arise in these cases, including Heck v. Humphrey , 512 U.S. 477 , 114 S.Ct. 2364 , 129 L.Ed.2d 383 (1994), and Illinois's embrace
of that rule in Lieberman v. Liberty Healthcare Corp. , 408 Ill.App.3d 1102 , 350 Ill.Dec. 593 , 948 N.E.2d 1100 , 1107-08 (2011), as well as ripeness,
statutes of limitations, and the insurance coverage issues.
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | F.3d
** | BL

