[H1] 
[H2] Search
[H2] No Matches Found
[H2] Copy with Citation
[H2] Delete Note
[H2] 
[H2] Enter a Client Matter
[H2] Unrecognized Client Matter
Search over:
Search term(s) not found.
Copy the text below to paste into your document.
United States Court of Appeals, Tenth Circuit.
UNITED STATES of America, Plaintiff-Appellee, v. Cory Devon WASHINGTON,
Defendant-Appellant.
No. 11-6339.
December 28, 2012.
Appeal from the United States District Court for the Western District of
Oklahoma.
[*1216] Jeffrey Michael Byers, Assistant Federal Public Defender, Oklahoma City, OK,
for Defendant-Appellant.
Suzanne Mitchell, U.S. Attorney's Office (Sanford C. Coats, U.S. Attorney,
Steven W. Creager, Special Assistant U.S. Attorney, and Ashley L. Altshuler,
Assistant U.S. Attorney, on the brief), Oklahoma City, OK, for
Plaintiff-Appellee.
Before HARTZ, McKAY, and TYMKOVICH, Circuit Judges.
McKAY, Circuit Judge.
Defendant Cory Washington pled guilty to two firearms charges. Before
sentencing, the government filed a notice of prior convictions to support a
sentencing enhancement under the Armed Career Criminal Act, 18 U.S.C. § 924 (e). The probation office identified three predicate violent
felonies: an adult conviction for assault and battery with a dangerous
weapon, an adult conviction for second degree burglary, and an Oklahoma
juvenile adjudication for pointing a weapon. Defendant objected to the
application of the juvenile adjudication, but the district court ultimately
concluded that the juvenile adjudication qualified as a violent felony under
the ACCA. The court therefore applied the enhancement and sentenced
Defendant to the minimum sentence under the Act, fifteen years'
imprisonment. On appeal, Defendant objects only to the application of the
juvenile adjudication to support the sentencing enhancement.
The ACCA enhancement applies when "a person who violates
[ 18 U.S.C. §] 922 (g) . . . has three previous convictions by any court . . .
for a violent felony or a serious drug offense, or both, committed on
occasions different from one another." 18 U.S.C. § 924 (e)(1).
As used in this subsection . . . the term`violent felony' means
    any crime punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year,
    or any act of juvenile delinquency involving the use or carrying of
    a firearm, knife, or destructive device that would be punishable by
    imprisonment for such term if committed by an adult, that — (i) has
    as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical
    force against the person of another; or (ii) is burglary, arson, or
    extortion, involves use of explosives, or otherwise involves conduct
    that presents a serious potential risk of physical injury to
    another. . . .
Id . § 924(e)(2)(B) . "[T]he term`conviction' includes a finding that a person
has committed an act of juvenile delinquency involving a violent felony." Id . § 924(e)(2)(C) . Whether Defendant's juvenile adjudication qualifies as a
violent felony conviction under the ACCA is a legal question that we review
de novo. See United States v. Zuniga , 553 F.3d 1330 , 1333 (10th Cir.2009).
Defendant raises three objections to the application of this enhancement.
First, he argues that the government did not establish his juvenile
adjudication was for a felony, rather than a misdemeanor, violation of state
law. Second, he contends Oklahoma juvenile adjudications [**2] generally do not
qualify as convictions under the ACCA. Finally, he argues his juvenile
adjudication was dismissed after he served his five-month term of probation,
rendering the action a nullity under Oklahoma law and preventing its use as
a predicate conviction under the ACCA. We consider each argument in turn.
We first consider Defendant's argument that the government failed to
establish he committed an act of juvenile delinquency involving a violent
felony rather than a misdemeanor. This argument arises from the fact that
the charging document and associated documents from the juvenile
adjudication did not include a statutory reference for Defendant's offense,
and pointing a weapon can be either a misdemeanor or a felony under Oklahoma
law.
As it stood at the time of Defendant's juvenile adjudication, the Oklahoma
misdemeanor offense provided: "It shall be unlawful for any person to point
any pistol or any other deadly weapon whether loaded or not, at any other
person or persons either in anger or otherwise." Okla. Stat. [*1218] tit. 21, § 1279 (1992) (amended 1995). This offense was punishable by three
to twelve months of imprisonment. Id . § 1280 . The felony offense provided in
part:
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or without lawful
    cause point a shotgun, rifle or pistol, or any deadly weapon,
    whether loaded or not, at any person or persons for the purpose of
    threatening or with the intention of discharging the firearm or with
    any malice or for any purpose of injuring, either through physical
    injury or mental or emotional intimidation. . . .
Id . § 1289.16 . Violation of this statute was punishable by one to ten years
of imprisonment. Id . § 1289.17 .
Although the charging document for Defendant's adjudication does not
include a statutory reference, it clearly tracks the language of the felony
offense:
[T]he said minor is alleged to be delinquent in that: said Cory
    Devon Washington committed the act of POINTING A WEAPON, in Canadian
    County, State of Oklahoma, on or about the 14th day of April, 1992,
    towit: did willfully, and without lawful cause point a Colt M16
    rifle, for the purpose of threatening and intimidating [a trooper],
    and with the unlawful, malicious intent then and there on the part
    of said Cory Devon Washington to injure the said Trooper . . .
    physically, or for the purpose of mental or emotional intimidation.
(R. Vol. 2 at 99.) Nevertheless, Defendant argues the juvenile adjudication
was based on the misdemeanor offense because: (1) the charging document uses
the term "pointing a weapon," which was closer to the 1992 title of the
misdemeanor offense, "Pointing weapon at another," than the 1992 title for
the felony, "Pointing firearms"; (2) Defendant's sentence of five months of
probation was within the misdemeanor range of punishment; (3) court costs
were not assessed at the standard level for juvenile felony adjudications;
and (4) to the extent there is ambiguity, we should apply the rule of lenity
to construe the juvenile adjudication to refer to the misdemeanor offense.
We are not persuaded the charging document must have been referring to [**3] the
misdemeanor offense simply because it used the word "weapon" rather than
"firearm." Oklahoma courts are not consistent in their use of these terms
and have specifically used the phrase "pointing a weapon" to refer to the
felony offense. See, e.g., Thompson v. State , 169 P.3d 1198 , 1200 (Okla.Crim.App.2007) (stating that the defendant was charged in "two counts
of Feloniously Pointing a Weapon, under 21 O.S.2001 , § 1289.16 "); Wimberly v. State , 698 P.2d 27 , 30 (Okla.Crim.App.1985) (noting the defendant was
charged with three counts of "Pointing a Weapon" under Okla. Stat. tit. 21, § 1289.16 , the felony statute); Gatlin v. State , 553 P.2d 204 , 205 (Okla.Crim.App.1976) (stating that the defendant was "convicted of the crime
of Pointing a Weapon at Another in violation of 21 O.S. § 1289.16 "). Thus,
the charging document's description of Defendant's offense as "pointing a
weapon" does not persuade us it must have been intended to refer to the
misdemeanor offense even though the rest of the charging document would
contradict such a conclusion.
Nor are we persuaded by Defendant's other arguments. The fact that
Defendant was sentenced to five months of probation as a juvenile delinquent
does not prove he would have been sentenced to a similar term of
imprisonment had he been sentenced as an adult. A juvenile court need not
follow statutory sentencing ranges in a juvenile adjudication. See In re G.A.M. , 563 P.2d 161 , 162 (Okla.Crim.App.1977) (affirming an order placing a
juvenile in the custody of the Oklahoma [*1219] Department of Institutions, Social and Rehabilitative Services for an
indeterminate period of time, where an adult could only receive a thirty day
sentence for the same violation). Indeed, "[t]he very purpose of the
juvenile system is to treat juveniles in a different manner from adults." Id . As for the court costs, while the amount assessed was lower than the
flat charge for a juvenile felony, it was greater than the statutory cap for
a juvenile misdemeanor, which supports the conclusion that Defendant's
adjudication was not based on the misdemeanor offense — otherwise, the
juvenile court would have exceeded its authority by ordering greater costs
than authorized by statute. See Okla. Stat. tit. 28, § 162 (A). Finally, we
note that the rule of lenity is a rule of statutory construction
inapplicable to ambiguous orders and judgments. See United States v. Metzener , 584 F.3d 928 , 934-35 (10th Cir.2009). Because the language of the
charging document clearly tracks the language of the felony statute, and
because this felony offense falls within the ACCA's definition of a violent
felony, we conclude that Defendant's juvenile adjudication qualified as a
predicate violent felony under the ACCA.
Defendant also argues Oklahoma law prevents the treatment of juvenile
adjudications as criminal convictions under the ACCA or for other purposes.
We rejected essentially the same argument in United States v. Carney , 106 F.3d 315 , 317 (10th Cir.1997). There, we explained the use of prior
juvenile adjudications for sentencing purposes is "entirely consistent with
Oklahoma law," and, even if there were an inconsistency, "it is clear that
Oklahoma law could not bar consideration of defendant's state juvenile court [**4] records by a federal court in determining a sentence, when federal law
provides otherwise." Id . (internal quotation marks omitted). Although
Defendant cites to one additional Oklahoma statute that was not cited in Carney , this statute does not affect our analysis. This statute simply
provides that no juvenile adjudication "shall operate to impose any of the
civil disabilities ordinarily resulting from conviction of a crime" and that
"a child [shall not] be deemed a criminal by reason of a juvenile
adjudication." Okla. Stat. tit. 10A, § 2-6-108 (A). Neither the imposition of
civil disabilities nor the deeming of a child as a criminal are at issue
here. Moreover, we note Oklahoma law itself specifically permits prior
juvenile adjudications to be used both for sentencing purposes, id . §
2-6-108(G)(3) , and to determine the lawfulness of subsequent firearm
possession, Okla. Stat. tit. 21, § 1283 (D). "For these reasons [Defendant]
has no basis for arguing that Oklahoma law prohibited the district court
from considering his state juvenile adjudications during sentencing." Carney , 106 F.3d at 317 .
Finally, Defendant contends his juvenile adjudication could not be used as
a predicate conviction under the ACCA because it was dismissed by the
juvenile court, rendering it a nullity. The record reflects that the
charging document was filed in April 1992. In June 1992, the juvenile court
ordered Defendant placed on probation and set a review hearing for November
19, 1992. On November 19, 1992, the district attorney "move[d] the Court to
dismiss the . . . Juvenile Action for the reason to best meet the ends of
justice" and "pray[ed] that all action in this case be terminated and
dismissed." (R. Vol. 2 at 103.) The juvenile court approved the district
attorney's application for dismissal and ordered the action to be dismissed
without costs. Defendant argues this dismissal rendered the action a
nullity, essentially setting it aside under state law such that it cannot be
counted as a conviction under the ACCA. See 18 U.S.C. § 921 (a)(20). For
support, Defendant [*1220] relies on Carder v. Court of Criminal Appeals , 595 P.2d 416 (Okla.1978). He
also cites to the general principle that "dismissal of the action or
proceeding, though a previous judgment may have been rendered therein,
extinguishes judgment, action, and all, leaving the parties in the position
they were in before it was commenced." Sammons v. Pike , 105 Minn. 106 , 117 N.W. 244 , 245 (1908).
Under the ACCA, "[w]hat constitutes a conviction . . . shall be determined
in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction in which the proceedings were
held." 18 U.S.C. § 921 (a)(20). Our review of Oklahoma law persuades us that
"dismissal" is simply one way in which a juvenile court may terminate its
jurisdiction over a juvenile action. See Okla. Stat. tit. 10A, § 2-2-503 (A)(9) ("The court may dismiss the petition or otherwise
terminate its jurisdiction at any time for good cause shown."). Oklahoma's
statutory scheme treats dismissed cases the same as closed cases, and a
dismissed case is only considered never to have occurred if the juvenile
records are sealed. Under Oklahoma law, an individual's juvenile records may
be sealed when "one (1) year has elapsed from the later of: (1) dismissal or [**5] closure of the case by the court, or (2) notice to the court . . . of final
discharge of such person from the supervision of the Office of Juvenile
Affairs or juvenile bureau," the individual has not been found guilty of a
subsequent criminal offense, and "no juvenile or adult proceeding for a
criminal offense is pending." Okla. Stat. tit. 10A, § 2-6-108 (B)(1). And it
is only "[u]pon the sealing of any record of any person alleged to be
delinquent" that "the record and official actions subject to the order shall
be deemed never to have occurred." Id. § 2-6-108(D). Moreover, even such
sealed records may still be used for sentencing purposes. Id. §
2-6-108(G)(3).
The fact that Oklahoma law permits the use of dismissed and sealed cases
for sentencing purposes strongly suggests Oklahoma does not treat a
dismissed juvenile adjudication as a nullity. Rather, Oklahoma appears to
use "dismissal" simply as a way for a juvenile court to close a proceeding
after appropriate actions have been taken, such as Defendant's completion of
a five-month term of probation in this case. See also United States v. Mason , 435 Fed.Appx. 726 , 728 (10th Cir.2011) (explaining that the probation
office contacted an Oklahoma county district attorney's office and learned
that "a dismissal in juvenile proceedings does not negate the delinquent
adjudication, but instead closes the Court's interest in the juvenile case"
(quoting PSR addendum)). In light of this specific use of the word
"dismissal" in the Oklahoma scheme, general principles of law regarding this
term's typical usage are inapplicable.
Defendant relies on the Oklahoma Supreme Court's statement in Carder that
a juvenile court's dismissal order "vacated, set aside and entirely
eliminated the action, rendering it a nullity." 595 P.2d at 422 . At first
glance, this statement appears to support Defendant's argument. However,
viewing this statement in context, we are not persuaded that Carder was
intended to alter the statutory scheme under which dismissed juvenile cases
are treated essentially the same as other closed juvenile cases. In Carder ,
a juvenile was adjudicated delinquent and ordered into the temporary custody
of the Department of Institutions, Social and Rehabilitative Services. The
juvenile court subsequently dismissed the case. However, the Department
contended the court was without jurisdiction to do so. It was the
Department's position that the juvenile court lost jurisdiction over the
delinquent child as soon as the court ordered the child into the
Department's custody. In support [*1221] of this position, the Department relied in part on a statute providing that
"an order committing a child adjudicated to be delinquent to the
Department[] may not be modified." Okla. Stat. tit. 10, § 1118 (1969)
(amended 1979, 1981, and 1995) (current version at Okla. Stat. tit. 10, § 7003-6.1 ). The Oklahoma Supreme Court rejected this argument, holding:
"It is clear that the order dismissing J-7-14 was not a`modification.'
Modification is merely a revision or adjustment of details. The dismissal
order vacated, set aside and entirely eliminated the action, rendering it a
nullity." Carder , 595 P.2d at 422 (citation omitted). Thus, the juvenile
court [**6] had the authority to dismiss the juvenile action and, once it did so,
"the Department, [the juvenile's] custodian only by reason of orders entered
in that action, was without further claim of lawful custody." Id .
Thus, Carder's statement that the "dismissal order vacated, set aside and
entirely eliminated the action" came in the context of distinguishing a
dismissal from an unauthorized modification of a custody order: because the
dismissal order completely ended the action and terminated jurisdiction over
the juvenile, the court held it was not the same as a modification of the
disposition order. Carder did not discuss the effect of a dismissal on the
use of a juvenile adjudication in future proceedings, and we do not read it
to affect the statutory scheme under which dismissed cases are treated the
same as other closed cases, only being deemed never to have occurred if the
records are sealed under the statutory provisions.
Oklahoma's use of the term "dismiss" to refer to the termination of a
juvenile court's jurisdiction over a proceeding is admittedly confusing.
Perhaps Oklahoma does indeed intend for such a dismissal to render the
juvenile adjudication a complete nullity ab initio, even for sentencing
purposes. However, the statutory scheme as it presently stands does not so
provide, and we will not reach such a result based simply on Oklahoma's use
of the word "dismiss" and the Oklahoma Supreme Court's remarks in a
different context. We hold that the dismissal of Defendant's juvenile
adjudication following his five-month term of probation did not constitute
expungement or setting aside of the conviction for ACCA purposes. We thus
hold that the juvenile adjudication was appropriately applied as a predicate
conviction under the ACCA.
Defendant's conviction and sentence are AFFIRMED.
- Skip Navigation
- Logout
- Help
- Susan Yeh
- Client Matter (None Selected) Remove Current Client Matter Enter Client Matter
- Remove Current Client Matter
- Enter Client Matter
- Saved Searches & Alerts
- Downloads
- Research Trail
- Workspaces
- Home
- Search & Browse
- Practice Centers
- Litigation & Dockets
- Transactional Law
- Legislative & Regulatory
- Legal Analysis & News
- Companies & Markets
- All Legal Content
- Company Screener
- Court Opinions
- DealMaker Documents
- Dockets
- Domain Name Decisions
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Legislative
- News
- Patents
- People
- Regulatory
- SEC No-Action Letters
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Federal Law
- State Law
- Antitrust
- Banking & Finance
- Bankruptcy
- Corporate/M&A
- Employee Benefits
- Health
- Intellectual Property
- Labor & Employment
- Securities
- Tax
- Search Court Opinions
- BNA Outlines & Headnotes
- Federal Rules
- Litigation Resources
- Search Dockets
- Breaking Complaints
- Docket Analytics
- Docket Coverage
- Docket Requests
- Docket Tracking
- EDGAR
- EDGAR Comment Threads
- Example Searches
- DealMaker Documents
- DealMaker Clauses
- Current Awareness
- Drafting Guides & Overviews
- Transactional Legal Treatises
- Transactional Resources
- Search Legislative
- Search Congressional Bills
- U.S. Code
- State Legislative Materials
- Legislative Resources
- Search Regulatory
- Search Federal Register
- Code of Federal Regulations
- State Regulatory Materials
- Monitor Regulators
- Regulatory Resources
- BNA Law Reports
- BNA Manuals
- BNA Portfolios
- Books & Treatises
- Search News
- Legal News
- News by Topic
- TOP News
- Business Development Center
- Search EDGAR
- Company Watchlist
- Company Screener
- Company Report Writer
- Market News
- Quick Print
- Print/Download
- Email
- + Workspace
- + Queue

All Legal Content |  | Company Screener Court Opinions DealMaker Documents Dockets Domain Name Decisions EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads | Legislative News Patents People Regulatory SEC No-Action Letters |  | BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises Federal Law State Law
Antitrust Banking & Finance Bankruptcy | Corporate/M&A Employee Benefits Health | Intellectual Property Labor & Employment | Securities Tax
Search Court Opinions BNA Outlines & Headnotes | Federal Rules Litigation Resources |  | Search Dockets Breaking Complaints Docket Analytics | Docket Coverage Docket Requests Docket Tracking
EDGAR EDGAR Comment Threads Example Searches | DealMaker Documents DealMaker Clauses |  | Current Awareness Drafting Guides & Overviews | Transactional Legal Treatises Transactional Resources
Search Legislative Search Congressional Bills U.S. Code | State Legislative Materials Legislative Resources |  | Search Regulatory Search Federal Register Code of Federal Regulations | State Regulatory Materials Monitor Regulators Regulatory Resources
BNA Law Reports BNA Manuals | BNA Portfolios Books & Treatises |  | Search News Legal News | News by Topic TOP News
Business Development Center Search EDGAR | Company Watchlist Company Screener | Company Report Writer | Market News
* | F.3d
** | BL

